Yeah. So the whole time. Okay. Good morning.Hey, everyone. Have a good feeling, a little sleepy.Uh, that hour we lost. Still, I still miss it.I hope you're all feeling well. Um, today we are going through.Uh, we're having a few guests, so I'm very excited to, uh, introduce our first guest, for sure.And, uh, yeah, we'll hear from her on, uh, designing a mental health app.And so, uh, not sure if any of you have tried these kinds of apps before.Uh, there's many, many of them.Hundreds, thousands of these apps, probably. And, uh, yeah.And so there's a lot of research happening around that.And human computer interaction is definitely like part of the skill set, uh, that will help us create more effective apps.So, uh, I'll leave it to the to introduce herself a little more.But just before we dive right in, any questions about the course?Partnerships. Yeah. So that we have, you know, like, uh, is this a last version or do we have one more?Yeah. So week . Yeah. Next week is the sort of time for you to use for gathering your, like, user data,uh, sessions, feedback and like sort of pilot pre pilot data for your protocols.And then the last week, week , uh, we have lecture and final stand up and then your report is due after that.Yeah. And then I think your, your video is due before that. So we might show a few videos select a select videos.Yeah. Yeah. Um, for the uh experimentation.What's the expectation for like living for ten participants?Because we, we found out that our protocol will take around an hour of participants.So, realistically speaking, like you got a small sample size of about  or  will be quite a bit of.Yeah, yeah, yeah. Like I think, uh, do you know exactly where you saw the number ten?Because I think I wrote the number five somewhere. Oh, I think ten was just my assumption.Oh, okay. The sample size was around five. Yeah, yeah yeah, yeah.So, uh, yeah, I should re we should unearth that point.But yeah, I think five is really what you're aiming for.It's or  or  in a sense that like, every member of the group perhaps tries out being a facilitator, uh,so that everybody gets an experience and then you can all come together anddiscuss what's working well with the with the protocol and the implementation.You know, would you take this on to the full experiment or are there some things you would change.Yeah. What's the data looking like so far. That kind of thing. So.Yeah. All right.Great. So thank you. No further ado. Thank you.All right Kia. Good morning everyone.Um, welcome to the, uh, advanced topics in human computer interaction.Although, you know, like the greeting towards the end of the lecture series.So, um, today I'm going to do a guest lecture. My name is, uh, what is Sharon Gerace?Um, so before going into our topic for the day, um, I'm going to introduce myself to you.So, um, I'm actually from Sri Lanka, the beautiful country.You must have heard of it. So I did my bachelor's in ICT in University of Colombo.So after, um, during my, uh, during during doing my honours degree, I, uh,wanted to I grew my interest towards research, so I wanted to do more research.So when finding research opportunities, I could grab one from any US and later from NTU.So, um, I worked in Singapore as a researcher for nearly five years, and then I thought to pursue my PhD.Sorry. Uh, PhD. Um, so I came to New Zealand, so I studied at a massey University for my PhD, and I see it.So my research was mainly focusing on identifying fat stigma discussions in social media context.So, um, after doing my PhD, just after doing my PhD, um, I found an opportunity at the University of Auckland.So currently I'm working here as a research fellow, uh, with Professor Jim Warren.Okay. So, um, let's dive into today's lecture.So what will be discussed today? So we will focus our lecture mainly towards personalisation.And then I'll move towards personalisation in digital mental health interventions.If you haven't heard of it you'll get to know it today.And um how it has been applied to the conversational companion agent that we are developing at the moment.So you'll get to see, uh, companion agent here, our companion agent, and get to know it more.Um, so before going into, um, directly going into personalisation,I would like to get some kind of an intro with, um, the perspective that I have for HCI research.So, um, during I came to one of the lectures and, um, I remember Daniel was mentioning that actually,uh, the beauty of HCI research somewhat lie towards having different perspectives.So out of millions of perspectives, um, I would like to focus on the perspective that I have, which would lead us toward our topic, personalisation.So when when we talk about human computer interaction research,we could see that some of the research lean more towards computer and some of the research leaning more towards human.So the ones that lean more towards computer, we could call them technology centric.Uh, um, research that focuses on innovations that extends the capabilities of computers and interfaces.So the key research areas would be these are like few examples,hardware integration and usability or uh, sensory and spatial interaction, cognitive load and emotion.Advanced interaction models such as gesture recognition, gaze recognition, those kind of things.So it actually focuses on pushing technological boundaries, often with high tech and hardware heavy approach.Then there are some research that lean more towards the human.So the human centric HCI research emphasis on understanding and adapting to, um, human needs and behaviour.So personalisation actually comes under this category.So some of the key uh research areas would be understanding human behaviour and preferences,emotional and cognitive engagement, tailored interfaces and uh experiences and enhanced uh user satisfaction and adherence.So um, so today out of all these topics, we're gonna focus on personalisation.So what is personalisation. So this is actually the definition of personalisation.Personalisation is the process that changes the functionality interface in.Formation, content, or distinctiveness of a system to increase its personal relevance to the individual.So what it actually means is that making something suit for a specific person.So think of it like when a website and app or a device that adjusts its content,layout, features, or background based on your preferences or your behaviour.The idea is to make your experience easier,your interaction more enjoyable and more relevant by giving you what exactly you want without you having to ask for it at the first place.So, um, out of the, uh, some of the characteristics, if you focus on some of the characteristics of personalisation.Uh, we could think of adaptivity. So systems that dynamically change based on user interactions and personalisation is user centric.So it's focus on delivering value to the individual user based on their preferences or context.And it's data driven. So it sometimes utilises data like browsing history or interaction,how you interact or how you state your preferences to provide a tailored experience.So, um, let's do an activity.Um, can you think of some of the apps on your phone that use personalisation?I would make it easier. So I have actually categorised, uh, identified four categories.So there are many categories of apps on our phone. So these are four categories I could come up with.So, um, shall we discuss the examples of apps that have personalisation.And can you name what kind of personalisation that they're used to.Uh uh Instagram for you page. Yeah. The content on that can be customised to whatever you put you on.Yes. Yeah. Yes. Good example.What else? TikTok, huh? Yeah.So, um. Very addictive. Okay. Exactly what you wanna watch.Uh, okay. All right. Okay, good. Good example.Can anyone think of. Shall we start with entertainment, then?Okay, I agree with you guys in Instagram. TikTok.Good examples. Um, I have also come up with Netflix.Netflix personalise. So it asks who's watching.Right? And based on your watch history and your likes and dislikes, it generates personalised, um list of movies.And Spotify also gives you personalised, uh playlists based on your preferences.And YouTube uses your search history, your watch history, and your likes and dislikes to provide personalised, um, videos.So any, uh, suggestions ideas for app recommendation?So we have apps to go and play store.So app store and place to suggest other apps to you based on your downloads and how you have used your apps on your phone.Any suggestions for shopping or e-commerce? Ads?Yes, they pop up all over the place for Instagram and TikTok.And if you're on like a specific shopping app as well, if you do like baby patterns or something.Mhm. Small pets. Yeah. Like this as well.Mhm. Mhm. Okay. Okay.Yeah. So uh so yeah.Uh I think at one point I needed to buy a mattress.So I looked at a mattress and, and that was a few years ago.And even today I still like. Yeah.You're like when. Mhm. Yeah. That like you know you get the ads.Yeah. Even my Facebook like the mattresses. Mhm.Yeah. Yeah. Good. Yes. Oh yeah.Yes. That uh I was thinking about is um about how your, your recommendations are also based on your networks.Mhm. Mhm.And so like if we are connected on Facebook or through email then they'll look at, you know what all your network is looking at in the shopping.Mhm. To, to sort of make recommendations for you. Yes.So it's definitely not just at the individual level. Yeah. Yes. Yeah.So um when it comes to shopping in e-commerce we have Amazon, we have eBay, we have demo Shein.So um, Amazon actually recommend, uh, product to you, uh, based on your past purchases and your browsing history.And eBay, um, did do the same, actually, based on your search history.It tailors, um, products to you.So, uh, how about health and fitness? Any fitness app that you can think of that do the personalisation?Yeah, I think I think Garmin does uh purchasing.Mhm. Because it like, uh, tracks your own um, to order your own physical data and then prepares like plans.Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Good example. Yeah. Um, yeah.That's, that's also a good example. So I could think of Fitbit.Fitbit uses your, uh, tracks your activity data and um, recommends, um, fitness goals, uh, based on your activity data.And MyFitnessPal, uh, recommends meals and workouts based on your diet preferences and goals.And, um, the next to, uh, very relevant to what we are going to talk today.So this is head space. This is comm. So head space and comm, uh, uh, mental health apps, uh, that uses mindfulness.Um, so what they actually do is they ask you a bunch of questions and your, uh, initial interaction with the app.So they ask, um, what do you want to focus.You want to increase your focus. You want to do some relaxation activities.You do you have trouble sleeping? Uh, so based on your responses, they craft a personalised meditation content for you.Right. So now we know personalisation.And I want to, uh, narrow down a further a bit and talk about personalisation in digital mental health interventions.So anybody have heard about digital mental health interventions before.Yeah. Yeah Daniel has out of it.Anybody else now okay.Um digital mental health interventions are technology based tools such as apps, websites, programs designed to support mental health.So, um, okay, I'll ask you a question. Uh, raise your hand if you go to the gym.Um, okay. Yeah. That's good. Okay.So we are going to the gym to take care of our physical health.You we have to stay fit, right?So same as that. Staying mentally fit is important.We have to take care of our mental health.So you are now in the inner city. You are in a very, um, let's say, uh, you experience many major life transitions in Philly.Okay. Maybe one a year to you. You have to decide where I'm gonna join next.What my career path would be. So there are a lot of life transitions happening based on your decisions.So in all those phases of life, uh, we need to be mentally stable and fit.Okay. So, um, how do we take care of our mental health?There are a lot of mental health resources available.There are a lot of mental health apps available. And in the university, such as in University of Auckland,there are a lot of counselling services, peer support groups that help you to stay mentally fit.And also you can use some proactive mental health care such as meditation, yoga,relaxation activities or having breathing exercises every morning that would help you to stay focussed and mentally fit.So um, now we know about mental health and we have talked about personalisation.So we have to now figure out how, how or why, uh, personalisation is important in digital mental health interventions.So um personalisation.Sorry. Personalisation um helps digital mental health interventions to increase the engagement because when you get some personalised interaction,you will be would like to engage more with the interventions and it also improve the adherence.So you will not just use once or twice, you will try to keep on using the interventions in a longer period of time.Any hands use experience you will not be given, just generally content.You will be giving a personalised content.So it enhances the user experience and because of all these, it gives a better outcomes from the intervention because you are using it uh,regularly, you are using it for a longer period of time so that you get a better, um, outcomes.So, um, so, yeah, so we, uh, understood what personalisation in digital mental health intervention is,but we wanted to know what kind of personalisation techniques has been applied in digital mental health interventions so far.So what we did was we um, we have conducted a review on research that has been carried out in the last ten years thatare focusing on digital mental health interventions and that have used personalisation.So, um. So based on our review,we identified that personalisation in digital mental health interventions could be categorised into um what elements have been personalised,what elements within the intervention has been personalised and through whatmethods mechanisms has personalised been personalisation being implemented,how the personalisation has been applied, so what and how?So those questions we have answered through our review.So we called the our what question personalisation dimension.So what has been personalised our personalisation dimensions and how it has been personalised means personalisation mechanisms.So next I'm going to explain what we have found during our review.So when it comes to personalisation dimension we could find six different dimensions.So um, when it comes to um, the elements of digital mental health interventions,there are therapeutic elements and there are non therapeutic elements.Therapeutic elements offer an example. If we deliver the intervention to the user in in terms of modules.So modules are therapeutic elements of the intervention.But if if the intervention allows user to have their own profile, have the background and some character.Does contain factors. So those are non therapeutic elements.So the first dimension we could find out was content.So content is personalised.So when it comes to content it means what user is being shown or asked to do in both therapeutic and non therapeutic contexts.So when it comes to therapeutic content um content it's about um content of the modulesor length of the module can be personalised based on user preferences or user behaviour.When it comes to non therapeutic content we could think of like okay, today I'm at University of Auckland.So some apps could give me uh, a nearby uh mental health resources available to me based on my location.So that means those, uh, information is personalised to me, but it's not therapeutic information.It's non therapeutic information. So, um, under content we have that kind of personalisation.And the next one is the order. So as I said in the interventions the interventions are delivered same using modules.So there's  modules. So instead of giving  based on a user's preference or users behaviour, we can give one  to  five.So we are not changing the content, but we are changing the order of the content based on, uh, use of preferences.The next one is guidance. So, uh, guidance means non-technical support from personalised, uh professionals and, uh, moderators.So, um, we can get feedback suggestions personalised to us from the therapist that are content in connection with the app or,um, some, some apps are connected to both the user and parents.So the parents can give feedback, um, or suggestions or there are moderators that can help those users.So those are uh, personalised to the user guidance.Um, the next one is communication.Communication is automated communication in therapeutic again and non therapeutic contextwhen it comes to therapeutic context um we can deliver uh personalised reminders.We can change the I mean you get notifications on your phone right.So sometimes we can personalise those notifications, maybe add your name to it.So um, those kind of uh, communication comes under therapeutic communication.And when it comes to non therapeutic uh context we can think of having contacts.So in our distress situation really who do you want to contact.You can add your friend, your parent or whatever that is personalised to you.The next one is interface. So this is actually regarding non therapeutic contacts.So um we can have um apps or uh interventions that that allows user to have your own profile,you know, uh design your own avatar or how you can customise your background.So interfaces is regarding that. So it is about customisation of non therapeutic elements.The last one is interactivity. So that could be uh interventions.That gives you a list of links resources uh that you can save or else.For an example, if you like breathing exercises more you could save um them as your favourite.So those could be revisit and reuse later.So those comes under interactivity. So those six other personalisation dimensions.Now let's look at how personalisation has been applied.So uh when it comes to personalisation mechanisms the most popular one is users choice.So it gives some options. Or ask user what do you want.And personalised based on that. So that is the most popular way that we could observe.The next one is provide a choice. So instead of giving user the ability to um, state their preferences, the professionals,the therapist or moderators decide what's best for the user and provide those suggestions.Um, and feedback. The fourth one is rule based.Rule based means if then. Rules with clear allocations of cases.So for an example, let's say um, we get the symptom profile of user.And based on if the user show um, uh show uses heart rate is greater than , then this should be done.So those kind of um, if then clearly allocated cases could be used if there have different modes.And based on each mode we can personalise the intervention.So that's come on comes under rule based. The final one is machine learning.Machine learning is a little bit closer to rule based, but instead of having if then clearly allocated cases,we have data driven automated decisions with multiple elements.For an example, we can use real time assessment.We can use real time mode assessments.Or um, let's say AI using AI would be comes under the machine learning.So um, this is how the personalisation has been.Um, has been what we could observe in digital mental health interventions.So um, yeah, yeah. One thing that maybe I'll just, uh, like reflecting on these options.Um, um, I, I think like, um, user choice and role based and provider choice were more popular.I think, yes. Some decades ago. Yeah. And we're going more towards machine learning.Machine learning. And so like if we were just to take a moment there and think, like what does TikTok use to personalise the algorithm.Mhm. Does anyone use like we haven't really talked about what the inputs are.Yes. Yeah. So what do you think. What does technologies to personalise a feed.Uh, are you saying something like the input or, like the algorithm?I'm just like, whatever. Whatever the algorithm is using, uh, to to make choices.About what? Videos. So you're more like, um, watch time.Yeah.Watch time of all these videos with whatever variables they are, uh, you know, like, I wonder what variables they have for everyday, like, liking.Yeah. For sure. Like, I, I like to that, uh, the, uh, um, if you comment under it.Yeah. If you comment below.I know some like, creators like, like people who comment on it, which is like kind of takes the algorithm so puts it over more people's feet.Yes. Um. I think it's also like if you click on that profile, like just different things.Yeah, I think every single action that you do, um, personalises your piece, you know,like different like how you went through that huge process of like the ratings of each.Mm on each, um, action that we did. Yeah.There might be a heavy rainfall like in a video and even have your in the comments.That means you're interacting. Uh. Yeah.Yeah. But I think those like I think something that's here is sort of like what are explicit actions that the user takes,like liking and commenting and some more implicit actions.Um, in a way like things that are not. So yeah, like not really customising explicitly, but it's just like, oh, how did you, you know, like, yeah.What's your dwell time? What's your swipe time. Like that kind of when do you swipe back.And I like how long someone spends on that.Hmm. Yeah for sure. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. And maybe even like the time, like time of day.Time to cause person going on and at some games and on.Yeah. And I would imagine that there's some sort of like similarity,like they have like networks of user groups that are connected by geographical location or just by some sort of like similarity per mile.And they're using statistics on groups of people instead of just the individual.Yeah. Because the whole point of that is just to get increased engagement.Right. Like to me, more, more people on it for a long period of time.Yeah, that's the whole idea. Well, they probably used anything they could.Um. Yeah. Yeah. Hmm. Yeah yeah yeah, yeah.Okay. Okay. So, um, so next I will discuss about applying the ones that they've learned,the personalisation and some of these techniques on a conversational companion agent.So before going into that details of how we have personalised, I would like to give an introduction to our conversational companion agents.So in collaboration with University of Nottingham we are being a part of large project named Digital Youth.So our part of research is to design and develop a conversational companion agent thatwould motivate um adolescents and youth with mild to moderate anxiety and depression,to use mental health apps and enhance adherence.So what is the research question. So the problem is that there's high dropout rates in digital mental health interventions.So adolescents and youth with anxiety and depression often face difficulties to sticking to the interventions.So many users start using mental health apps but don't continue long enough to get the benefits.So we wanted to address the challenge of dropout rates by designing a solution that focuses on improving, um, user engagement and adherence.So instead of delivering therapy, uh, our companion agent is designed to encourage ongoing,um, use of mental health apps through personalised and supportive, uh, interactions.So, um, mango is our conversational companion agent, doesn't offer therapy, but engages with users to keep them motivated on using mental health apps.So this is mango, but you think of mango.Thank you, thank you. Uh, so, uh, can anybody say what he represents?What animal he represents? Good. In Kenya?Yes. My husband told that it's a small dinosaur.Yeah. It's a he's a leopard gecko. So this is, uh, mango.And a mango is improving. Currently, we have a small team.There's one programmer who works on design and designing and developing mango, so he's working really hard, so.But this is kind of like a prototype. And next slides I will explain about how we have personalised mango.But before that I need to, uh, mention something that um, when I talked about mango and when, when we, when I show you mango,you will think that okay, this could be easily done using ChatGPT, but, um, I have to emphasise that at the current moment we cannot use.I directly to health apps specifically.Specifically, we are dealing with, uh, adolescents and youth with mild to moderate anxiety and depression.So we cannot really predict what I would respond to some of their, um, some of their queries.So because of that, we are at the moment altering by ourselves the content of the our conversational agent.But hopefully there would be soon, soon, some standard, uh, standard way of applying AI to health, uh, informatics.So then we can directly use, um, large language models for these, um, developments.So personalising mango. So, um, at the initial interaction mango asks user about uses name.So from downwards uh, on each interaction mango uh talks with the user.By using the username we can have a look.What's your next? So, um.I'm replying as John. Great to meet.And I know not a real. Yeah.So, um. Um, actually, um.Yeah. So why why do we think that including name is important?So addressing someone by their name fosters some kind of a family reality.So which helps to create a more personalised and engaging interaction.So it's simple, but a powerful personalisation technique that can be used to strengthen the connection between user and the companion agent.So using a name is a way of making the interaction feel less like a generic app experience and more like a personalised, um, conversation.So, um, in next you could see you can see that on the second day also.Uh, let's. How's it going?So then I reply, good. You're doing great.I am. Yeah.So, um. So as you can see, uh, so once I, um, tell my name is John on the next day,also, um, um, mango connects with me by my name, which is really important.And another thing that I need you to, uh, focus on is that when mango asks how you're doing based on a user's respond,mango gives a personalised, uh, reply back to the user for an example.When I say good. It says, uh, awesome to hear that you are doing good and move on to the motivational, uh, statements.And if in any case, if the user said that I'm oh, I'm feeling bad today, then mango would reply accordingly.Oh, it's sad to hear that you feeling bad today.Um, but you could do these things and kind of like move on to motivation.So that's also one of kind of the personalisation we have is uh, the role based personalisation we have used.And um, so, uh, have you and have any of you have heard about co-design research?Method co-design is um, bringing what we are designing before the development phase,bringing what we are designing to the, to our target audience, and sit down at the same table and explain,uh, what we are going to do, and then, um, co-design and give, uh, getting their response towards,uh, some of the design elements and designing, um, the experiment, the research based on that.So we have run a co-design session um, in with adolescents in UK.So we brought um, mango to them.And uh, so what we have heard earlier was the initial voice of mango.So they thought that Mango's voice, uh, sounds a little bit childish.So, um, instead of changing something to something else, we thought to give them some options to choose from so they can try,uh, different voices of mango, and, uh, they can choose whatever the voices that they like.So this is another voice of mango, so let's do that.Also, I hope you. Brought to meet you.You know what? I'm not a Roman Catholic.Obviously, I'm an invention of researchers at the University of Melbourne.Yeah. So who likes the first wives? Yeah.Who likes a second choice, huh? Yeah.Okay, great. So, like, I see how we can personalise in different ways.And, um. Okay, the next one is we have different backgrounds for mango.Based on the time of the day. So in the morning, if we are interacting with mango in the morning, mango will be lying on the rocks.And if it is at night, mango would be lying next to a fire, uh, fireplace.And it also have fireflies, so it will not need food.It has not been captured in the screenshot, but there are fireflies running around as well.And if it is in the afternoon, like, let's say, after lunch and  or , uh, then um, mango would be sitting next to a river.So, um, so this actually adds a layer of context awareness.So making the experience feel more relevant to user's environment.So for adolescents and youth dealing with anxiety and depression,a contextually aware interfaces can reduce the cognitive load so they know, um, making the app more user friendly and less overwhelming.Uh. Okay, so next one is about setting uses on reminder time.Let's have a look. Thank you for sharing your. If you ever feel the need to talk again.I can send you a message at a specified time. A day when it's a nice, convenient time for.I'll remind you at . Yeah.So, um, giving users the ability to choose the reminder.Time empowers you. So to fit the app into their schedule.Uh, so rather than having the app dictate, uh, when they should engage.So this, uh, taps into users sense of autonomy and personal control.So receiving reminders when they're actually available, uh,can help from to form positive habits, which are crucial for longer, longer term adherence.So many mental health apps fail because users find the reminders to be annoying and poorly timed.And personalising reminder times makes the app feel more like helpful companion rather than a nagging tool.Right. All right, so the next, uh, what we have done was we personalised.So mango is about giving motivation for the user to keep on engaging with mental health apps, right.So how are we going to motivate them? Um, the first theory that we used is incorporating whole five, um, and motivating,uh, giving motivational content and feature introduction based on who five.So any of you have heard of who? Five. Who five is.Um, actually a simple five questions.Um, generated by W.H.O., um, World Health Organisation.So, uh, those five question gives us the understanding.Give um, I'll show you the question first. So, um, these five questions, um, so we ask from users from of the past two weeks, um,from  to  scale how much you felt cheerful in good spirit so they can react poorly.If it is poorly, then they can rate  to , two, three.And if they're felt cheerful in good spirits, then they can rate  or .So likewise, we asked those five questions from users and based on their respond response,we, um, generate personalised motivational content back to the user.So the example that I'm having here today is about a user that rated low for the second question, calm and relaxed.So he didn't feel in the last two weeks he didn't feel calm or relaxed much.So he uh, scored poorly in the second question. But for all the other question, he uh, scored higher.So let's hear how, uh, mango personalised the content.The meditation feature. Science, and not to mention locating my friend and my place in Oceanside concessions.My. I was talking about, like music stuff like meditations.I mean, just your feelings. Level of common sense. How do you try to calm meditations on headspace?They're great for helping you. Yeah. So it uses, um, calm meditations from headspace to motivate the user to try it out.Okay. So, um, currently we have used these kind of, um, techniques to personalise the experience.So as I said earlier, mango is developing. So, um, um, so next we are planning to um give personalise.We are planning to personalise the motivational content based on short story of basic values.So I'm not going to bore you with all of these values.But this is a very, um, uh, deep theory.So I, in short, believe that, um, humans have basically ten values that there is in the, in our inner circle.So for an example, and we can um, humans prioritise these values.So let's say if one can be prioritising tradition over other basic values one can be prioritising self-direction or stimulation.So likewise people have these uh values prioritise.So uh we thought like to capture the values that are prioritised by the user and tailor content,motivational content and introduction to creatures of mental health apps for the user, um, based on the values that they have prioritise.Yeah. So this is what, uh, we're planning to do next.So as I said earlier, um, mango is building up and it's getting, um, developed and it will be, um, developed further.So, um, if any of you are doing your thesis next year, starting your thesis next year, and would like to be part of mango, you can talk to me or Prof.Jim Warren. Um, yeah. So, yeah.So that's, um, about today's lecture.Do you guys have any questions? Thank you.Let's give her a hand. Uh. Thank you. Yeah, well, I have, um, a comments on, um, notifications.So I do think, uh, I don't know.My experience of using Duolingo is that the notifications are actually timed.Um, uh, based on my daily habits of when I use my phone.Mhm. And so it's sort of like dynamic timing to be like predict when I'm gonna be on my phone and like right after that I'm like,oh that's, you know, I don't know.Do you have any other, uh, observations on what kind of notifications you're getting from various companies and what's driving them?They are focusing on what we are going to play. Okay.So sort of predicting what we would be interested in and showing that.Yeah. Yeah, when I was working in industry.Like. Knowing what to put for notifications um, was yeah, quite, quite an important challenge and.Yeah yeah, yeah. To get that right was very difficult.Yes. Yeah. Yeah. So just like always having sort of like evergreen um, uh, or like ambiguous content that drew users attention.Yeah. Yes. Mhm. But yeah it's interesting the, the role that mango plays, um, it's uh social role in a way.Yes. Like uh reminder and support. Yes.And so yeah, that there's uh, I guess like for people who do have like strong adherence.Yes. Uh, they, they may have like a person in their like personal social network that takes on that role, like, hey, what have you done lately?Yes. Do you know you have this resource? And so it sort of sounds like mango is taking on that.Yes. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. So today I was focusing on the, on the personalisation side, but it actually talks with um have you tried this feature.If you haven't tried it gives you these kind of benefits. You know some kind of conversation is going on.Yeah. Mhm. Yeah.Yeah I do, I do sort of see like a, a question of like where's the logical end point.Like if you stop using mango, would there be another agent to be like hey you haven't opened mango.Yeah that's a question. Yeah. Any other any other questions for the show.All right, well, let's give her our guest, our guest speaker, and one more time.Thank you, thank you, thank you guys. Thank you for coming.I think, you know, you can have a five minute break and we'll start again with our next guest speaker.Okay. I sent you the slides if you want to post them.Okay, cool. This is the most. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And so I have to introduce you to, um.Um, to come up with some questions.So I guess you're on the knowledge level project as well. Right?Okay. Just do that for us. Okay.Good. Yes it was.Ecosystem? Yes, and? This.The client. Our challenge was that.Is. Look at sexual history for.Most of the time. Right?Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Well, we don't like the country.Yeah. As always.I'm always. Oh, yo.Uh. Yeah, yeah.Like Google Maps on. Yes. Yes.Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.Kind of like in. On both sides.Both of us. Yeah. Yeah. Like I said. But also do not say like some human people in the human projects into.And you can sort of understand that. You see, I am like that.Is that you? I don't want you to listen to me for that.Yeah. Well. Of us?Yeah. Did you do it? I said I was like, you only.Oh, I was like, yeah. I was like, yeah.I can't tell you, you know. Yeah. You know.Yeah. Um, yeah. I'll go for you at once. Okay. Yeah. That's good.You have to. And then you co-design.Yeah yeah yeah yeah. So then I.Yeah. Click. Okay. I'm trying to use device, but I'm okay.It's a solution that we call discovering every time I start something.But it's not. Okay. Okay. Okay, good.Uh, yeah. You know what? If it's like, I can't get my books.Oh, yeah. Yeah. So we can finally do it by the browser.If you use your device, I'm going to you just to have a backup because there's, like.I feel like some ideas. Oh I see. Yes.Device. Oh, you're just, like, a small chance, right?But what will happen? No, no, honestly, it's not like that's usually my go to, to be honest.Is this this stuff, this issue, like, you know, um, since I'm teaching.Uh. Oh, um, Glenn and I'll, let's say at least a couple of times during semester lectures, don't record your explanation.No, no. And so no warning. Pausing when you don't know while it's not happening.Right? No. Oh. Absolutely not. And then the students.Oh, yeah. So. Yeah. And so now I just like I always do it back up and it's not just one of response.Yes. Like in all the rooms everywhere. Yeah. Yeah.It's yeah. It's uh, it's not okay. And there's I don't know I'm sure you're following all that, but I feel like it's the haunts the hotel.Oh, yeah. Sorry about that. Despite working tirelessly, it's all for the time being.Yes yes yes, yes. What a surprise that this.Yeah. That's okay. Yeah, yeah. Oh, just makes me.Yeah. Oh, yeah. Um, um, department administrator was like, uh, what is it?What is it? Knowledge. Uh, sorry. Interests me.Daniel. Uh oh. That's the only sometimes because I've got some funky fonts that our team insists on using because they like our brand fonts.Every now and then, the computer won't read them. So I happened to me at a couple of conferences.I was like, sorry, just won't read it. So everything just goes scrambled.This is good. I think we good. Yeah, yeah, just check in because, you know, I don't have any videos, Queen rolls and Mac, the font stuff does.Come on. Uh, I had problems with these slides. Was supposed to be, you know, reverse colours.I cannot my results are low. I'm just believing that, you know, that's meant to be now, but that's all.Good. Good. These are just, like, showing step by step with it.Looks like I'm just going to run to the restroom. Absolutely.Of course, of course, of course. It's like, don't look at the monitor.Like all the time. Obviously, you know, the goal of the nation is to somehow.This is. Yeah.Yeah, yeah, I get .Oh, God. I still do not know how I got so sick of all I.Is like this. I just picked up. Not not.Oh, that's pretty gonna to like I was on, so.Yeah. My God, are you have a good piece of. Thank you for the call points.As you like. I said, if you want. Yeah, I'll go about.But, uh, but also, you know, this and that, and then you believe in you.So that the. I mean, I don't.Know. It's right for me to.I mean, I just turned it on so that the students know that.Yeah, we're here, and we're going to get started. Hey, I'm talking to you.Well, I hope you're still with us. Oh, I would be so.Uh, would you like to relax? Yes.Yep yep yep. Uh, I don't see how it goes. Sometimes I'm a bit more dynamic.And I wonder because that is kind of one of those days.But it's good to have you do that in a big run all the way.So because we were playing like. So thank you for.Good morning. Well, yeah. It's working good. Yeah. Okay.Welcome back. Welcome back for our, uh, second speaker for today.And so, you know, the goal, the goal of bringing in guest speakers is for you to have a sense of other research that's going on in the space,and also for you to be able to understand it through the lens of what you've been learning in this course.And so everything you've learned about quantitative assessment, about, uh, understanding users, understanding, uh, different aspects of, of humans.Uh, you bring this to bear on on seeing and understanding this work from, from a new perspective.So, uh, that's fantastic. Also that we have a nice theme for today, uh, with mental health apps and using some co-design,uh, which hasn't really been focussed on so much in the methods of this class.Uh, you've sort of seen some quantitative methods and some qualitative methods and, uh, talked about like different epistemological approaches.And so co-design fits in are more like participatory advocacy kind of, uh,approach because it's really giving it's really empowering users to be a little bit more active in what is the solution and what is the research.So, uh, I've been working with Carolina for for some years now.Yes. And uh, co supervising students and uh, yeah, really, really excited for her to share, uh, this work that she's been doing.So thank you so much. Thanks, Danielle. Thank you. Um, very good morning to you.Um, lovely to sort of leave my craft on campus.I work at the Department of Psychological Medicine. Um, my name is Carolina Caroline.I respond to both like a very, very well trained sort of animal.I'm a dog lover. I've got a dog, so I use that often. Um, I'm a research psychologist by background.I was born in Poland, but Auckland, New Zealand, it's my home, has been my home.I've always worked at the University of Auckland as a bit of my spiritual home, I suppose.Um, and I, um, I'm here to tell you about a project that I've been involved in for a long time, um, which is in mental health and digital.Um, but it's a digital intervention called headstrong. I sometimes like my, my work tag that I have to where it's got, you know,I've got my sort of merchandise with me, so I've got, um, uh, it's a bit of a bragging session, I suppose,in the sense that I'm going to share with you some of the successes that, um, our project and our team have experienced,but also sharing some of the lessons and I guess taking you on a bit of a journey from, like, the beginning.And of course, we're talking about a number of years, so I have to do it swiftly.I do have a lot of slides. I um, Danielle, I'm not sure if you've been able to share them with the student so they don't feel like they have to write.I promise my slides are official rather than, um, full of bullet points.So it's really, um, not that kind of session. So this is also one of those sessions where you are allowed to take out a phone if you've got one,or maybe just on your, um, computer browser in front of you,you can look up headstrong, you can look up headstrong as the the website, which has obviously got a lot of public facing, uh, information.And uh, while you're probably just outside of our target audience of adolescents,you're a young adults and we actually I a process of designing some content that would fit more into the sort of early tertiary experience that's,uh, we've got a summer project, uh, looking at that, but, uh, I suppose you've been teenagers.You might live with one. Your brothers, cousins, uh, family members and, um, you know, uh, it's probably,uh, a really good idea for you to get a, um, a taste of what headstrong is.So obviously it's publicly available. It's free.I wouldn't be asking you to subscribe to anything that's not, um, we do have a browser version, um, not just an app.And I'll start with something a little bit interactive. Why do you think we've got a browser version rather than just a night of app?Any any ideas why we've made that choice?Hmm. Um, some medallists might not have a smartphone app.Yep. That's absolutely. So it's a matter of equity and and accessibility.Um, you know, breaking down the financial barriers. Absolutely.Um, although the stats suggest that most do, but absolutely.I agree with you. They might have a really like, you know, really old phone.They might have stuff on their phone that they really want to keep, like music and TikTok and whatever.And for them to sort of download an app that's mental health might be a low priority.Another another reason. That's right. Anyone?Have we heard about the, um, government's directive to remove cell phones from classrooms recently?Right. So, um, because we are in the space of mental health, and we actually want to reach young people with this tool.Um, and we recognise that as of this year, earlier this year.And that's a trend that we're seeing worldwide as well, is that, um, we've been thinking about,you know, how do we make this accessible in a classroom context, right.We actually got approached by teachers saying, huh, you're tall tool looks great, but that's only on a phone,and I don't really want my students getting out phones in the classroom because I don't know what they doing.But we have, you know, computer labs and we use that, um, for, for, you know, obviously, um, lessons and stuff.So, um, the functionality of course, is, is a little bit different because it's on the browser as opposed to a touch screen,but nevertheless, it's something that we've added to the arsenal,which complicates things, because every time we do any kind of an update, we have to do it across different platforms in the browser version.So design gets more expensive and all that stuff. But I think it's a it's a kind of a compromise.Okay, so, um, I don't know how much of that you already know or whether you probably might not have learned it in this course,but in other courses just sort of like, you know, I've got a couple of slides on the sort of mental health, um, some people call crisis,some people just call it, you know, really poor mental health statistics that we're seeing in New Zealand.But they again reflect international trends about, um, the rise in depression, anxiety and other common mental health problems.The pandemic has made it worse. We think from a research perspective, we're seeing the trend is not getting better.I could talk to you for a whole other class about whether, you know, technology,digital, um, exposure to, um, digital tools, social media are causing some of this.Let's leave that debate. What we're seeing is, is poor mental health statistics.So, uh,  in  Kiwi young people will experience a significant mental health issue before adolescence or during their adolescence.So it's like %,  in . That's a lot of people.Um, and then more than %, um, of mental health problems emerge before the age of .So adolescence is a really important time and it is an important time to intervene.We also have got some other states just just bring it together.This % comes from this particular study.But um, you know, we've got meta analysis now that suggests that it is about three quarters of young people do not get any help,professional help, counselling, uh, medical um attention or going in speaking to a a health professional.People do get helping otherwise obviously speaking to friends and family.But um, if you kind of compare that to say, having um, I don't know,unmanaged diabetes and you thought three quarters were not getting professional help, that's really concerning.Um, we also know in terms of like for example, this nets netsafe stats that young people spend a lot of time on their devices online.That's where they go to for information. That's obviously a convenient, private way of getting, um, health information,whether it's about something private like mental health, sexual health, etcetera, etcetera.And I've been involved in this, uh, work.I was just telling, um, uh, Danielle about sparks, which we, um, sort of it's a kind of another project that I've.It's a grand daddy.So back in , it was part of my postdoc that, um, uh, a team that I was part of designed a computer game called sparks designed for.I can see some people nodding. This is great, I love it. We've heard about it before or you've had some exposure to it.That's wonderful. And then, you know, we had some successes, um, that actually in New Zealand,it's been implemented since , specifically designed to help adolescents with depressive symptoms.Um, we've taken it overseas. We've got projects in, in various places.So we do think that digital tools can help.Um, but there are some problems with them.So primarily they derived from an, you know, face to face treatments, i.e. people kind of treat digital tools the way, okay,so what happens is a counsellor meets a client, they sit down and have a conversation and a text now usually about  minutes to  minutes.And it's booked in on a Monday. And then. It's another session a week later.So it's very linear and structured like therapy. Um, that's a problem.It's didactic and mainly includes text, i.e. there's just a lot of stuff you've got to read.If you have the motivation and the comprehension skills you'll get through.Most people give up. Most people find it quite difficult.Part of having mental health problems like depression is actually lower motivation,etc. etc. so than getting people to sit and consume a lot of written content is quite challenging.Um, we don't have a lot of tools made in New Zealand with the New Zealand context being kind of, um, you know, built in.Um, so that's um, that's another problem.And then of course, you can open the App Store and look at health and fitness apps and then start looking for mental health,mindfulness or what have you. And you will find thousands of different tools.So, um, you have to pay for obviously commercially sort of, you know, commercial model, some that are free,but it's hard to know what does work, what is based in evidence, what the people are just trying to make a buck,uh, whether it's actually safe because we know that, for example, giving people poor advice about certain things,whether it's mental health or physical health, can also cause harm.So if you think like back to where e-health or digital tools started, this is how it originally looked like.This is a program called Overcoming Depression on the internet. Often it's now obsolete.It doesn't exist anymore,but you can really see it's essentially like a workbook that someone tried to kind of computerise by putting text might be you click on something.It's like the chapters that are interactive, believe it or not, to this day there are still, you know, in ,a lot of programs that look a bit like this might be a little, maybe just a little bit more fancy in terms of design.But now if you think about, uh, your own preferences with how you engage with media,if you think about a  year old, are they going to want to do this?Are they going to be reading through eight chapters and kind of, you know, reading, um, the language there was very, very kind of clinical,challenging thoughts, etc. of course, in a face to face situation, the clinician would take time to explain and so on.Of course, we in a written didactic form like this, we can't do that.So this is quite a big kind of leap.So we thought we could do better or we sort of challenge ourselves with, with some of these sort of assumptions.We wanted to create something that, um, a colleague of mine called Snackable, you know, little short sessions or, you know, interactive sessions.We were very much aware that technology and user preferences change.So we need it to be able to update stuff and kind of futureproof it instead of in this project.That's sort of I guess our mandate was to be wellbeing and, um, resilience focus, um,not necessarily a treatment, not necessarily the so-called ambulance at the bottom of the hill,but rather the fence at the top, trying to teach young people coping skills and strategies to deal with, you know, deal with stuff.Life happens. Um, and, um, we wanted it to be engaging and kind of fun and easy, you know,something that they can actually like, um, enjoy doing, but at the same time being clinically robust.Uh, definitely. Back to that New Zealand cultural context.Um, in terms of our treaty obligations, um, wanted to make sure that we were working in a black cultural context,acceptable and relevant to Maori, broadly speaking, unapologetically Kiwi.So kind of authentic and local, um, and of course, free in terms of, um, you know, no cost barriers as well.Okay. So in a nutshell, this is kind of spoiler because this is what headstrong has become.But I will now kind of step back and take you through what we did.It's an app. It's designed for adolescent, kind of your typical high school age  to .Although we do have got, um, evidence from research that it works for up to  year olds.We didn't do research with older people, so maybe it works for  year olds, but we just haven't reached out to them.You know, all the stuff around safe and secure, um, backed by science.And then the co-design with youth, the authored by clinical experts and informed by best evidence is,I suppose, what I'm going to sort of focus on today to show you how we did that or how we tried doing it.I'm not saying that we did everything right. Okay.So first of all, uh, and we're going back to like .So quite a while ago and habits one started and we wanted we ask ourselves what is it that adolescents want.Right. So the first question is what do the stakeholders and the stakeholders, other young people that we're trying to help, what do they want?We started by, I guess going why to doing it kind of like a scoping study.Um, that's um, that's the paper. And that involved going to a number of different settings, surveying folks.Groups, as you can see, workshops. Um, and that was a qualitative study, which.Um, sort of there were three broad things, but the one theme that we kind of honed in is about diverse preferences.So we're working with, uh, a group that, you know, no, no one size fits all.Um, it's got a lovely sort of infographic that a colleague of mine did, which sort of summarises those things.It's about the, um, you know, if we sort of do that kind of user segmentation, you can see here, you know, younger and older teens,obviously the needs of a young person are quite different when they  than when they  when they're .And also sort of non symptomatic. So young people that are not experiencing any mental health distress versus actually experiencing difficulties.Um, so we've got young people who have younger kids, I sometimes call them kids, but the young people prefer gaming.They like engagement. They like gamification, um, kind of exploration.Um, older young people are a bit more either sceptical about mental health tools, digital tools, because they actually don't want to speak to someone,or they put up a bit of a barrier, but also they there are young people who what we call them straight talkers.They actually want to sort of advice right in the moment about the problem that they're experiencing.Um, and they don't mind and they actually feel that mental health digital tools are a good way because there's no one else to reach out to.And that's a private, safe way. So we sort of honed in on that group.Um, but also being aware that, um, you know, the gamification stuff is sort of important if we want to appeal to younger teens and so on and so on.Um, this is one of the nice kind of quotes that came out of the studies.You want someone you don't know that you can always talk to and depend on, and some of that you don't know is about kind of privacy.And, um, you know, yes. There's no way, no way for me to say that the young people don't want to talk to their family,but sometimes the family may be a problem, and sometimes it's really difficult.They want like a bit of an independent advice,a little bit of support from someone who's going to not judge them, who's going to understand them, etc., etc.Um, so then we once we sort of had a bit of an idea of what they want,we started doing more and this is kind of going in like that was a going wide, the kind of scoping stuff.And now we're getting kind of right down into the nitty gritty. So we engage in co-design processes.So I hear that these have been somewhat kind of explained or introduced, but um,it's you know, this is sort of a little bit of an image of what a co-design looks like.You know, traditionally, you know, you've got a bunch of designers and a client and they design whatever, you know, feels appropriate.Co-design implies that you're going to be working directly with end users,and you're going to get them involved in the very beginning of your, um, thinking.And, um, you, you create solutions together.It really is meant to if you do it well, if you really, really take the time and effort to ensure that the final product will meet the,um, the needs and preferences, it will if you do it well.If the product truly is done in a co-design fashion, it's improves our relevance and effectiveness.Because you have the lived experiences built into the product, it will, uh,ultimately improve user engagement and satisfaction because people who've, um, been informed it, you know, that they have a sense of ownership.And it's also something that we tell now that we have the tool. We often tell young people, you know, say marketing material, you know,co-design with young people, with rangatahi, um, so that they know it's not just us.It hasn't come from the top. It's been kind of done in partnership and it is emancipatory.So it does, um, empower participants to shape solutions based on their needs and perspectives.So what does it look like when we actually go and try and work with young people to let them share their lived experiences and,um, share their perspectives?Uh, so just before I do that, before a whole bunch of pictures here, we've obviously in terms of, um, principles as a collaborations,as an active role, that's inclusions, that's really important to, um, do it, do it with a diverse, um, voices and experiences.Um, it takes time.So, um, you, you also need to spent time to give everybody the, uh, and the right amount of respect and, um, and sort of value for their views.It is iterative, just like designers. So you are not going to hear the same thing from everybody.And you sometimes have to go back to your design, not go back to your stakeholders, um, do more workshops and so on and so on.So co-design. I, uh, I sort of think it's like you have to really invest time and energy into it.It's not for the faint hearted. Um, but ultimately, um, there is.For the users of an empowerment when in terms of how they can, uh, shape those solutions based on their own context.This is just kind of a nice to have. Like, I like this sort of uh, levels of co design or the leader and you can sort of see I don't know,you probably a little bit too young to be involved in things like council, you know uh uh uh um consultation,you know, because sometimes people, politicians or other well-meaning people tell you they doing co-design,but actually they doing something like an information session or a consultation.So it's like levels off. And at the very top you've got, well, the second to the top you've got co-design.Um, but there's also something even more, um, kind of advanced, I suppose, uh,in terms of the code decision making, um, where the shareholders actually have a mandate to act.But you can imagine how difficult it is to do it. But, you know, that's the kind of aspirational kind of letter of, of how you could go about it.So just some nice pictures. I really enjoy seeing those because they involve, you know, going back, um,lovely bunch of research assistants, research team, uh, colleagues, um, from various settings, um,that we sort of spent a lot of time we had, as you can see, uh, just recognising, you know,sort of having a session here, I can't remember where it is, but it's with professor Sally.Mary. They're kind of actually, um, you know, the boss of that project kind of going in and actually being there with the young people,and we're doing some, um, sort of workshopping there.Uh, we've gone out to young people, you can see, um, um, sort of their interest and showing and discussing,um, we've been fired at young people to the university kind of for school holiday workshops.Um, some of that is also, uh, you know, we don't want to just be taking stuff from them, their information we want to share some stuff with,with them a few more pictures you can see, you know, this is this is from we were doing a lot of workshops,co-design workshops on a couple of different intervention tools.So that's why you'll see some stuff that is not from headstrong, but it's still illustrates the point.Little groups. Um, this is by that stage we had a bit of a prototype that we were showing and taking feedback and reworking it and so on and so on.Um, spot the, you know, drinks and food and, um, you know, lots of coloured, uh, post-it notes and so on.What else have we got? This is, uh, from a school. So we actually formed a partnership with one of the, uh, Auckland colleges.We were there for a number of terms, um, probably.Tim. One, two. Tim three. We were kind of we had a partner friend who was a teacher, not a friend friend, but we became friends, um,who would invite us into, um, to one of his, uh, classes in the same group of young people participate at week on week on week.We always shared some coffee. Um, this was a lunchtime session to avoid, you know, stealing academic time from students.Um, these were really challenging because we only had about  to  minutes.Normally, a good co-design session will be, you know, a couple of hours you get to warm up, you can think, but we couldn't we didn't have that luxury.So we had to like, chunk it into little bits. Something else, I guess, just to sort of illustrate is that, um,it's really important that young people felt free to express their views and also that they could do it in their own way.Either way, young people speak. And, um, that there were kind of all the other barriers were removed as much as possible.So we had research assistants who were university students that were younger.They were from the communities that these young people came from.So we were trying to kind of make them feel comfortable. I would go on some most of these, but I would often kind of have a little bit more of a back,um, background role as opposed to like facilitating these workshops.Um, some of the stuff that we did with young people early on is sort of like doing some mood boarding,um, gave them a bunch of pictures, magazines and let them kind of like, so what would you know?Which images would you like, what would appeal and why?And then we would discuss these. So, you know, what what can you see here?You know, there's the, uh, there's a cultural Maori and a New Zealand context and Pacific, uh, that's celebrities,sports people, inspirational statements, you know, about being strong and tough and da da da da da.So we you know, this is obviously kind of conceptual and very, you know, um, uh, aspirational.But we we tried to reflect some of this in our,in our work and at and this is another one where we've now by now we actually have a working prototype of a particular intervention and we letting um,people play with it. Comment.We actually had um, our software developer come to some of these because he wanted to be there and see how young people engage with it.So we were doing some of those. I'm not sure if you familiar with the Think Out loud protocol.That's just not really part of co-design.That's a little bit more in terms of usability testing, but I'm just like I said, I'm taking you on a journey.Any of what we did throughout, uh, and that's, you know, again, that's one of the sessions we, uh,the young people that we brought in for a number of these school holiday, uh, workshops,um, they really wanted to go and see what a university lecture theatre looks like.We let them kind of, you know, we had a hold. This is one of those a whole day.So this is the opposite to having  minutes.We, uh, you know, again, logistically, you've got to organise a shuttle, bring them in, chaperone them all that stuff.University of Auckland doesn't like having minors on campus. You know that. Sign up, all that stuff.We did it. Uh, and then, you know, young. As you can see, they were thrilled to kind of be, um,have have fun and you can see us in the audience and they kind of lecturing to us and giving us, um,what else that we're doing, them sort of going, just facilitating this co-design sessions or making them,um, uh, you know, attractive and engaging for young people.Vouchers. Koha works really well. Um, because, you know, it's their time that they're giving up.Um, but at the same time, we didn't want it to be just a financial transaction, so to speak.So we had things like certificate of leadership, um, so that the young people felt like that their,uh, contribution was more than just sort of, you know, um, you know,that's not just a token of appreciation, but something that they could perhaps have in their CV or demonstrate to,um, to their parents and that kind of stuff. Um, okay.Any questions so far? Just on that part. Co-design workshops.No. Okay. Um, so. Okay, well, next we get to work with experts.We're not gonna have to. Obviously, we. Um, we, um. So we're now.And again, I've just got some pictures. I will, uh, promise. It's.This is where a lot of posting notes go to heaven.Working with, um, design experts. You can see, um, this was one of our ideation sessions.You know, this is now thinking about particular features, design, look and feel, um, the kind of concept that,uh, and I think you can see again, it was a workshop, but now we the client, I suppose we were.The researchers are being guided through design thinking principles.I think we were doing all the different. I'm not sure.Um, Danielle, like the Crazy Eights and the other sort of like, uh, prioritisation of ideas, putting dots on.If we were doing it all, they were guiding us through that. So you can kind of see, um, that process unfolding again.Um. Oh, these are, I think, the Crazy Eights, perhaps.I think, um, you can see some ideas and, um, us ranking them and then the this is again Sally Mary.Uh, and then one of the designers explaining how they see the product developing.Um, this is, uh, on the on the left there at one of our colleagues who is a, um, psychiatrist.And that's a that's a crazy eight right there. If they students know about this, we we haven't.Oh. I'm sorry. Um, that this this course actually that we, we do design, but we don't like not the individual methods.Okay, okay. Through like, deeply like iterative design process.And this is more like design within reason I see, I see, I see.So probably you need to just to define what crazy crazy is this like neat but scary technique that designers take you through.You fold a piece of paper on two and see what four pieces can you see that at the top of it?And you've got one minute to create one idea and there's a stopwatch.Uh, and it's obviously there's a question like, for example, that might be as simple as what would you like the logo to look like?Um, that's just an easy one. But um, uh, and then after one minute goes, you're not allowed to revise your, your, your idea.You move on to the next one, and then within eight minutes that everyone in the room has to create eight different,obviously in their own head, they're allowed to iterate different ideas, and then those ideas are being put on display,I suppose, for everyone to see in, you know, everyone gets to critique, discuss, and of course, now, by now,you could have  ideas in the room for, uh, and of course, you can start combining them and you do a bit of a, a ranking.Um, and you do it individually because we know, you know, from a psychological point of view, there's something that we know.It's a group thing. Usually people try to converge on one thing.Um, also people are really, really scared of saying something that they might think is dumb.What? Say it because it's gonna get judged, but people feel a bit more free doing it.Oh, well, I just I just draw whatever. I think it's okay then then obviously gets gets put out for a discussion.Um, so that's just one cool.Scary because it is scary when you, when you have to do it, um, technique to generate lots of ideas and then start thinking about,uh, what, which one of those is the best one or how you can combine them then if I described it.Okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's fantastic. This I was there hand up or not.Yeah. Like one I think one sort of thing that I've brought up to the class before, um, is this, uh,quote by Henry Ford and Henry Ford says if I had asked them, they would have asked for faster courses.So he went to the car and he's like, oh, if I had asked people what they wanted, they would have said faster horses.And so it's like there's this tension where you want to understand how the user experiences their problems,and you want to have them involved in thinking about, like what a solution could look like.But then there are other like activities like this where you do have to brainstorm and go for many,many ideas to really get to what is that innovation?And you can't simply just like ask a user, tell me what the next innovation is like.This is the sort of messy design process that has to come along with really understanding user needs.Perfect. Yeah. Um, I don't think I've got one of my.I couldn't find that, like. But the messiness of it, you know, you think when you starting that it's just going to be linear.But it's so it's messy and it goes in circles and tangles up.And sometimes you've got to pivot. Sometimes you've got to go back to square one.Sometimes you've got to scrap the idea completely.Um, it is a messy process. It's exciting, it's scary. It's messy.Um. Um, so out of all of these ideas, you know, scoping and then work.With young people, uh, in these design sessions.And then working with experts came up the idea of headstrong.That's already with, I guess, the brand name. But the idea was that that would be a coach.Uh, as in chat bot coach on Facebook Messenger that helps you reach your mental health fitness.So your mental fitness goals with daily check ins and personalised challenges.Um, question for you, why do you think we went for at the time?Um, for Facebook Messenger? It's, uh, I guess platform new ideas.You have to speak up a little bit. It's popular among teenagers.Popular among teenagers? Yep. That's. Absolutely. What else?I mean, that you're on. You're on the right track. So because it's popular with young people, they already have it on their phone,which means we going towards that kind of channel that they're using already, as opposed to saying, hey, download this app and they go, what?Um, we could kind of reach them directly. So that was not our idea.That was the designers who, you know, who sold it to us. They were very compelling and convincing.I you of course, this is like this is, you know, this is a screen from one of their really clever sort of pitch slide slide decks.Um, that was the question. Um, so then they went and sort of prototyped some of this.These are sort of they were early prototypes and they were working prototypes. And you can see this was this looked like this.This was designed for Facebook Messenger. Um, there would be a chat bot guide.You can see the little character. Uh, what, uh, would you like to save it to your favourite snack?That's your kind of quick response. So it's a chat bot, rule based chat bot.Uh, a fully scripted, um, and of course, you can see other things like, um, um, getting what is games, um,but also videos or mindfulness, you know, uh, sort of multimedia, um, and stories kind of telling young people.And so imagine now my mate Murray is really good at netball, uh, like really good.She's the best shooter on the team at netball. Super important to her.And then through that story about Maria and playing netball, there was sort of an anecdote and a lesson about,for example, Maria being stressed because she didn't get into the team and now she thinks she's a loser.And now the, um, you know, um, do you feel like that sometimes?What can we learn from this? You know, is Maria right about feeling like this?What if, you know, da da da da da, all that kind of stuff, and you can see the way we communicate with young people.It's that, you know, snack, snack, tivity little short bursts of activity.We using that language. We making it sound like this is New Zealand.I don't know where else in the world people play netball.Um, but also things like, you know, emojis and um, like we actually have got lots of gifs and stuff like that.GIFs. You've got to update a lot because they're very, very like topical.And in the moment we have to replace all of our old GIFs.Um, so, you know, just again, about the making of and the kind of journey.So this is like, okay, so young people will we'll have this chat bot guide that they can chat to.What does that guide going to look like. So we had a design at different company, different designers drawing up different sort of faces.This is um, you know, they gave us different options.We then went to young people and you can see design, see got most, uh, picks,um, which sort of and then, you know, there was like, she looks beautiful.She looks emotional. That's kind of what we want it to tap into.Then that got, you know, a different kind of design treatment. Um, you can see again see wins hands down what you know, wins and beats and getting uh,and it's like, I like the fact that auto has culture and motion.She looks like you can talk to her and she's had experience with it, and she can give you positive feedback because she's experienced that before.And I think I remember the feedback about she was like, she looks like an influencer.She's a bit cool, you know, but we wouldn't take him seriously, all that kind of stuff.Well, but you can see this, you know, going from this to this.And then that's actually originally we had four characters designed, um, Olivia, uh, Sam Auto High and Ravi.And then over time, they've grown. Believe it or not, we're going back to the designers to try and design some more, you know,in terms of increasing our diversity and being reflective of the kind of young people want to see themselves in these characters.Um, one thing, if you have anybody's got any design flair, you can make really good money working in design companies.Designing illustrations is really, really expensive.Um, but, um, you know, these guys produce really beautiful work.And again, back to, you know, wanting it to look New Zealand and feel authentic as opposed to, I don't know, American or, you know, okay.We also of course, so I've talked a lot about I guess you know, the vanilla.Oh, there's a question I was wondering if you could go back. Yes.Why did you choose to use kind of like this, um, style of person instead of like using an actual person?You know how you have like, like a yes in the depression.Yes. That that's helps people.Why didn't you go that? Very good question. Good question.Um, quite a few different sort of, um, motivations trying to stand the test of time in terms of, um, we actually, uh, I'm familiar with John Cole.Haven't met him personally, but I know about his work. And when we actually talk to young people about John Cohen, I have no idea who he is.Um, but then we thought, well, could we find another? A laboratory like that, who has got currency with young people?That becomes really difficult because there hasn't been anyone like that.Um, a little bit, you know, and this happened on other projects.You choose someone who's like your ambassador or your and then they do something naughty and you go see, what are we going to do now?Well, just like those are practical considerations.But of course, you want to choose someone who's, you know, going to be a leader in the community, but who's cool but who's also knowledgeable.Not an easy thing to do. Plus, you've got to probably pay them less.But having design characters might be more appropriate.But also that means we've got diversity of genders.We've got sort of Alex, who's that middle person is sort of meant to be a little bit, you know, non-binary,you know, in terms of trying to make sure that that young person feels welcome no matter what.So those those were a great question. Uh, you know, some people ask me a question like, why didn't you go for something like little.Are you familiar with an app called headspace? Not headstrong headspace.You know, the orange, kind of blobby, colourful like that would be cheaper, that graphic,um, element, because it doesn't have that depth of of of, I don't know, visual.So, um, that's a decision we made and we're sticking with it, at least for now.It's really interesting. So it's a dive diversion here.We spent quite a bit of time thinking and actually we use this for our posters and promotional stuff.Funnily enough, once you're in the yep,you don't have a lot of opportunity to see these characters up close because you start interacting with them through that little,little icon, you know, like through a messenger type thing.So it's almost like some of that effort is a little bit wasted, if you know what I mean.Um, maybe something that we will address in the future. Yeah.Because I'm looking at the character now and I see like there's a lot of diversity across like, culture, um, things.But I assume because you're targeting a demographic of teenagers because there's not much kind of diversity through age.Yeah, that's on purpose. They're meant to, you know, they're meant to look like teenagers from, I don't know, year , year , high school.Right. Um, maybe thereabouts.If they look a little bit older, we don't mind because we know young people actually kind of look up to slightly older teens,like an older brother, sister, cousin. They definitely are going to take advice from someone younger.Now I'm very mindful that I've ten minutes. No, no, no, I really, really like interactive stuff.But I will take you through it. So content right?I'm not going to spend in any more than half a minute.But essentially we've got, uh, a content management system, which means we can take content that we script as kind of a dialogue and then present,you know, oh, computer guys do magic guys and girls in, then they do.Uh, we have that also means we can add, iterate, add new content, create new content quite quickly and grow it.So this is what we did. Uh, we had originally content called headstrong, which was a wellbeing check.But then I started working with a student, um, Ruth, who did, uh, another piece of work.She like thinking about the content management. She created a stress intervention, which we called it the time stress detox.And then remember this, this happened, and we were all sitting at home and thinking, how can we, you know, response to this situation?We created a threat chat bot or third piece of content called aroha.This was helping young people cope with stress during Covid, during lockdown, social isolation, etc. physical isolation.But staying socially connected I should say. And then in , you know, it just happened.We were not in control of the government, came with a call a team to saying, hey,anyone in New Zealand got an intervention digital tool that we could actually take to scale to, um, an implementation.And we were brave and foolish enough to put up our hand.And we won that tender. So we went from, I guess you think at research incubator to a full kind of country implementation.This is the team, uh, not up to date because we grow our team and we've got some new team members.But, you know, I'm here representing a whole bunch of people, plus our, um, software development and marketing partners.Um, one of the first things we had to do went from Facebook Messenger to a native app.Quick question. What do you think that is? Well, at least for me, I'll be I don't know, maybe younger people are slightly less concerned about us.Uh, I'm unsure how much money you get. Uh huh. Something running on Facebook Messenger.Very good. Privacy. Yes, yes, yes. Um, part of it was the government didn't want us to be on Facebook.Um, they sort of said, well, you know, it needs to be standalone safe.And I don't know all the different, you know, privacy standards and stuff.The other one is Facebook also introduced certain, uh, policies around chat bots and conversations, um, with, um, bots, which I think.Was around protecting use. So we had no choice in it.We had to, as you can imagine, big technical exercise that I could have a whole other session.Had to go. All right, let's build an app. Uh, we launched that app in .Um, and we continue to evolve. So this is just kind of, you know, if you've got it on your phone now,or maybe after today's session, you will have a look at it, but I'll take you through.Um, headstrong personal trainer for your mind. This is where you get to meet your virtual friends.At the moment, we've got this, uh, content organised into five distinct.We call them sometimes collections course, as used to call them.Course as we keep changing our terminology. Foundation stress detox care.How that's changed as well a little bit. Uh, activate, which is physical health.Here is a cultural memory centred.Uh, how would I intervention and change it? Which is in a beta format, which is around drug and alcohol and other behavioural addictions.Um, so growing in response. So you pick a course or a collection, you choose your avatar, your guide, and then you've got skill sets.Um, and you continue, um, to, for example, mind skills to do with helping you like think about stuff differently,understanding your thoughts, negative thoughts, positive thoughts. Um, you know, changing your perspective.And you can see, you know, like that little activity there will take you four minutes and you can start at favorited and so on.And you get badges, gamification and you get progress obviously that gamification as well.Uh, and that's what a conversation slash chat would look like.Um, so this is you, you know, chatting to Alex.Uh, we'll just take you through what that would look like. You can see these kind of conversational, uh, um, interactions.Stress detox works in the same way, except it's got different content.That's the study that's to show the effectiveness of that care home on an app called how Aura Health is a kind of a black,cultural, Maori centred, um, intervention.Um, that got some nice, um, kind of media attention.We've got this new content around drugs and alcohol and addiction that's in beta.It's really cool to be doing beta because we. Yeah.Oh, oh, I didn't want to interrupt, but I just if you could say just a few more words of how do you know it's effective?Uh, have you gathered to be able to say we can tell this is effective?So we've got we tried to do enough, um, clinical studies, research studies, uh, with, you know, participants that we are able to track.We also collect a lot of data passively that, of course, a user agrees to.So we've got engagement data. Usage data. How much time?Which interventions, how many time they come back when they come back. Weekly active users.Monthly active users. We collect the data. We report to the Ministry of Health as well.We examine it. You know, we look at many user journeys that tell us.We also have got, um, uh, kind of routine measures of impact.We try to keep them really short and simple so that young people don't feel like we taking them through like a clinical questionnaire.Um, so trying to this is, this is a really this is not a sore point,but it's attention how much evaluation we want to do with everyday users who are just trying to enjoy the experience versus us.Like data is gold. We need to collect more data.So we're trying to actually separate it a little bit,because every time we put in a kind of a you could put in a clinical questionnaire like tell us you about,you know, you measure stress or measure depression or anxiety. We know from experience people switch off when we do that.So we do kind of clinical trials, often separately.And there are competing demands because the ministry doesn't care.They don't fund the evaluation part. We have to do it out of our own time.Students, postgraduate students. Anybody wants to come join the lab?Um, but we have to. But we collect the stuff on the the routine data.Yeah. So does that help? Just like quantitative? Yes, yes.We have more data than we know what to do with it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah.Okay. Yeah, yeah. Um.Physical activity. Just another intervention. Again. Physical activity.Not just, you know, it's on your fitness, pal. It's more about how your physical health doing exercise, being active, being physical, you know,eating well how it influences your mood, your feelings, how it makes you feel better.You know, kind of falling in love with, with being active, that kind of stuff.Uh, I'm really trying social media, right? It's a project for young people.You cannot not have social media. So do follow us. We, you know, it helps with algorithms and stuff.Um, we've just gone back to head and gone back to TikTok after being kind of, uh, pausing it,but it's like you've got to be on TikTok when you're communicating to adolescents.Um, we've got a website, of course, which again, that's kind of not so much for adolescents.They don't really care. Um, but, um, a lot of other stakeholders, health professionals, family, uh, um, other people, you know, look us up.We've got things like resources that help to promote it.Obviously, that's another kind of piece of work that needs to be always updated and so on and so on.So just a few lessons. Oh, God, I have to speak fast. That's fine.Basically, good things take time. This is you can see us, you know, from .That's where the project was originally conceived, I suppose.And and, you know, you apply for funding and then you wait six months and then they give you funding,but you can't start the project until you build a team and get ethics.Daniel, you know all about it, but that's how long it takes.Uh, and you can see also the sort of iterations that we've done and the launch and the iteration, and that's where we are now.And I will tell you a little bit about what we've got in store.Um, this is kind of been a big one for me and for the team.We've gone from a research team that was doing a little bit of technology.That's how we felt about ourselves to being a kind of a technology kind of, um, group that does a little bit of research.So that's going going back to your question about how we, um, you know, what do we how do we know that research part is a little bit?Now I'm actually really keen to grow that bit. So it's a bit more research.The bit about being a technology group, it's like, you know, we've got the aspirations to operate like a Start-Up, you know,to be uh, to work in, um, agile tech, not, um, methodology to have sprints and stand ups and to fail fast, you know, all that stuff.Like I speak it as though I know it, but, I mean, I've just been hanging around it people for long enough,but this is sort of maybe, maybe that slide is lost on some of, uh, some of the audience.But working as a Start-Up within a large academic compensation like this university,probably any other university, is hard because it's a large organisation.It's not that agile. Um, they don't really sort of understand our needs as a, um, kind of a technology group.You know, I sometimes feel like I'm a glorified administrator because I'm just in charge of HR and invoices, you name it.It's just, um, just it's a challenge. We really, really try.And I think we punch above our weight, but it's. It's a challenge. How big of a challenge for us.And you. You know, going to be a whole other session is how do we stay relevant?Relevant to our young people, to our stakeholders, to our funders,because we have to demonstrate to them that what we're doing is effective, impactful, that we keep growing our audience.And of course, what do we what do we what are we now thinking about AI or generative AI?Right. This is an AI generated image. I think I gave it a prompt like, uh, you know, the future of robots, racing robots.I think that was the prompt. And because we are racing with robots, you know, the chat bot technology that we thought of in , ,that's before anyone heard of ChatGPT and had a conversation with and um, that sophisticated the way chat bot.Um. Chat generative AI chat bots. You know that was in our competition back then.It is now. And so we are actually in conversation with, um, to fight world, uh,Health New Zealand about incorporating some elements of AI, generative AI into the intervention.We really, really need to stay on point with our evidence based content,but we want to make some of the so-called small talk conversations on boarding and gauging, hey sir, how's it going?Or tell me about the your cats or whatever it is, um, uh, powered or, you know, uh, connected with, um, whatever one of the agents,um, and we've proposed it, we've been seen by a panel grilled by them, but we're waiting on a response.But it's probably likely to happen. Um, and that's us.I got a minute. , , . Thank you so much.Here, let's give her. A thank you.So any any questions? Oh, good.Good. Yeah. Um, I guess we're slightly less on the computer side.Good.Uh, when you, uh, initially explained this, you were going a lot about having to serve or giving people skills to deal with things when they have.Yes. Is that still kind of the pitch of this acquisition?You go to the the GP and outline. Wow.It's going to be a little while. You can see someone goes that uh.Mhm. So we still like in terms of what we're trying to teach, the skills and strategies like the content is about like life is you know,being a teenager, being a young person can be challenging.Just life happens whether you go through a Break-Up or um, stressful time or whatever it is, or you might be experiencing, um, low mood.These are some of the strategies that you can use. And we do go to promote the tool via people like school guidance counsellors.And we write regularly articles for the New Zealand doctor, which is like a GP.Um, you uproot to sort of say, well, here's a tool that you can give to young people,for example, when you can't see them, when there's a long waiting list.Interestingly, another piece of work, work in progress is at the moment, as you've seen,we've got content organised by kind of like courses or collections, but young people, we work with a youth advisory group.They tell us it will be better and we really thinking about how to do this.If it was all organised around themes, it's like, what are you here for?I'm really stressed today. I'm having a really [INAUDIBLE] day. Excuse my French, but okay, so I can offer you this advice.So instead of like this is wellbeing, this is stress, this is physical health, this is Maori identity.It's actually what are you here for in the moment. That's kind of like rehousing content.Huge project. But I think we got to do it. Yeah. But it is still prevent.So we don't claim to be a treatment. We don't claim to say this will help lift you, you know, improve your depression, anxiety.We can't say that we don't have the evidence and it's not really at that level of intervention anyway.Um, that was another question. Yes. Wondering what kind of success stories in schools.I have been like, have they been, um, like health teachers or things?We do this in a classroom setting, not in a classroom setting yet.It's really, um, that we would love to do that. We, um, but we work closely with a lot of school guidance counsellors and nurses and social workers.So they, they we've got some schools that, um, like, champion us and who like every month request  packages of, you know,because we've got like referral cards and little knick things because they keep giving information about, uh,about this tool to their young people, classroom use as a kind of another level of, you know, how do we do that?Teachers would probably like to sort of link it with something like an NCAA credit so that it's like,how does how does using this in the classroom help my students get, you know,towards their, um, qualifications or how does it link with the learning objectives?So believe it or not, it's a project that is close to like something that we would like to do it.We don't have the resources. Hey, master students.Yeah, yeah, I was kind of this follow up was like, I was wondering how you're going to line up this big.I do, I mentioned you got to envision you. Mhm.Mhm. So I was wondering is, was that like a future where future work.Yeah. And probably would start with NCEA because might be it's used most commonly in um but absolutely agree with you again.And is it for year nine standards or is it for your ten. You know a level one.Level two, level three. Those curricula also change.So you have to then be dynamic. Yeah okay.
