And, uh, so today we're going to talk about, uh, GDP, gross domestic product and government spending.  Okay. And so, um, I was actually chatting with some of you and uh,  obviously when we introduce a topic like GDP and government spending, people are like, yeah, wow.  Uh, that's going to be exciting, right? And so I thought it's important to just give a little bit of context.  And I won't make this more exciting necessarily, but the reasons that we, uh, cover the material that we've been doing the last,  say, two weeks, uh, is all to, uh, create kind of a foundation for these big projects that you'll be doing.  Okay. And so, um, sometimes when we deliver the content, uh, it it can be hard to apply kind of in the abstract.  And so we have tried to use some examples, show some things from prior years.  Uh, but all of this is intended to give you just kind of a starting point from which you can attack these projects.  Okay. And so we do get that, you know, it is not necessarily as good as like the nearest or the most recent like Netflix release or something.  Okay. Uh, but we're going to try to put just as much energy into it as we can.  So thanks for coming along for that. Uh, so this is the agenda for today.  And as you know, I was actually I, uh, sat in on my colleague racist talk on, uh, Tuesday.  And I noticed he actually goes through this and you'll know that I don't.  I just say, okay, here's what we're doing. It's on canvas if you want to take a look.  Uh, but so these are the major bits.  And basically what we're doing is building on what Reza introduced on Tuesday where he, he first introduced his term GDP,  but he talked about the what we call the societal considerations to think about what else matters.  And so what we're going to do today is to drill down a bit on this GDP, understand what it is and, uh, what's kind of where it comes from.  Okay. So remember, uh, we've been talking about this when we talk about innovation at the systems level, problem solving at the systems level.  And so when we look at the systems of our society, those include things like our economy.  And, you know, in some ways we we would sort of take unless you are like a full on economist,  you would kind of take the economy almost like as a given.  Okay. Like you wake up in the morning, you buy a coffee, uh, you come to class, you pay your fees, maybe have a job, maybe get a study link payment.  All of those bits are part of the economy, uh, which will have developed in New Zealand or any other country over a very long period of time.  You know, there's certain, uh, traditions and, um, kind of, uh, conventions around our economy and in fact, the global economy.  And so that's one of the systems that we operate within.  And what we talked about.  And if you read the material in, uh, the Meadows book, uh, it talks about, um, systems thinking, really looking at a system of systems.  And so that's really what we do when we consider a systems level challenge is we're looking at a system of systems.  And one of those systems is the economy. Okay.  Another one is society itself. Okay.  Uh, the ways in which we, um, function as a, as a society, as a group, uh, the responsibilities we have to each other.  Actually, I have a colleague who's been in New Zealand about nine years, but, um, Sean's Australian and he's at a conference in San Francisco.  Never been there. And he, uh, sent me a text. He says, mate, the homelessness here is out of control.  And to me, that was just like, yeah, wow, dude, that's what San Francisco looks like these days.  But to him, compared to society in New Zealand, that was confronting.  Okay. And so all of these rules and of course, uh, these things are constantly changing.  But all of the rules, all of the experiences that we have, uh, in society as a New Zealander, uh, will be things that you kind of get used to.  Okay. And then, of course, the the other aspect of this is, um, the physical environment.  And in New Zealand, of course, we're very lucky to have an incredibly beautiful, uh, an incredibly diverse, um,  physical environment in which to live our lives and go for tramps and, um, go camping and go skiing in the South Island, things like that.  Uh, and, and obviously that's something else that as New Zealanders, we would kind of take for granted.  And so all of these systems are sort of the backdrop against which we consider these big challenges.  And, and we have to consider, uh, what could we change?  What can we not change? Um, what are we sort of up, up against?  Uh, one of the things that we, uh, talked about in a previous lecture is this, uh, what we.  Call the, um, tension between kind of the old way and, uh, the new way.  Uh, and we call that, um, fragmenting forces.  So it's like, okay, here's how we used to do it. We move forward, turns out actually gets pulled back a little bit.  And so that's what we're forced to deal with whenever we're looking at making big change.  And, uh, this is, you know, we talk about these what we call the causal loop diagrams.  And, uh, this is one in terms of how some of these systems interrelate.  Okay. So Risa introduced this term, but basically gross domestic product or GDP is about everything that happens in that economy.  And so the value of we say all goods and services.  But you know, everything that you do in a day, everything that the government does in a day will be are included in gross domestic product.  And in New Zealand, % of our GDP actually comes from the government.  So the government of New Zealand, in terms of them, uh, building roads, uh building the city rail link,  uh, providing study link payments, all that sort of stuff represents % of the whole economy.  And that's actually puts New Zealand, uh, about in the middle of the so-called OECD countries.  Okay. Uh, some the US is actually a little bit higher by %.  Uh, and, and then some other countries are a little bit lower, I think Australia is just a little bit lower.  So, uh, % of this whole thing comes from the government itself.  And so, uh, we look at, we say the final goods.  So if someone manufactures something that then gets put into something else.  So let's say someone's actually building software and that gets actually, um, put into an embedded system.  And uh, that actually comes out as a gaming platform.  Let's say all of those things will be in that final, uh, value.  Okay. Uh, and in most, most economies in the world, pretty much all, uh, use this GDP thing.  And so, uh, raise it, uh, introduce this. And this is a formula in terms of what's called the expenditure approach.  Okay. Consumption stuff. We buy like, you know, this water bottle, my phone subscription, uh, petrol for my car, I do, I do have a petrol car.  I, I, I did kind of go through the, uh, the, uh, comparison when I bought my car a few years ago of, of, uh, electric car.  But I do have a petrol car, so, so all that stuff, uh, goes into consumption.  Okay. And then investment is if, uh, uh, business is buying things like a new factory,  if they're buying, uh, heavy equipment in order to build a road, if, um, say, someone like,  put it in Hogan, uh, which is doing massive infrastructure projects, uh,  all of the equipment that they buy to complete those projects, that's going to be an investment.  Okay. And then the final bit is this % I'm mentioning that is the government's, uh, expenditures themselves.  So all that stuff together, plus exports minus imports.  So, uh, we're selling lamb, for instance, uh, to, uh, Japan and the United States.  And so, uh, that counts in our exports.  But, uh, the car drivers, uh, Sbarro. Okay.  So that's imported from Japan.  And so we have to take everything that we're selling to other countries and minus out the stuff that we bring to New Zealand.  And you will be aware that in New Zealand we bring quite a lot in, because turns out we're two islands kind of in the middle of nowhere.  Right. And so we need to actually import quite a lot of stuff from around the world.  So all of that goes into that formula to be able to measure that economy.  And uh, this has been done for a very long time, nearly  years.  Uh, we're going to run the short clip.  Uh, I'm, I'm actually, uh, working with a colleague, a young colleague that, um, I'm kind of helping him learn how to teach.  And, uh, he says, do you always use a video?  And I said, yep. Mario, I pretty much always do. It's just kind of a good break for the students from my own voice.  So, uh, this is a short one, but we're gonna roll this.  How do you measure the size of an entire economy? Let's say I buy a coffee here in London for £.  Those £ are factored into the United Kingdom's GDP.  And so is this barista salary and this espresso machine. In fact, most of what's around you is part of GDP.  GDP is an important gauge of the overall health of an economy.  It stands for gross Domestic Product. Simply put, GDP measures the total value of all goods and services in a country.  That means it measures a lot of stuff worth a lot of money.  Here in the UK, GDP is around $. trillion per year.  In the United States, the world's biggest economy. It's around $ trillion every year.  How do you get to these numbers? Well, you can calculate GDP in a few different ways, but the most commonly used equation goes like this.  Consumption plus investment plus government spending plus net exports equals GDP.  Let's break that down. Consumption is another way of saying consumer spending.  It's the money you or I spend on physical goods like coffee and on services like a haircut.  In many developed economies, like the UK or the US, consumer spending makes up more than half of a country's GDP.  The second part of the GDP equation is investment. This measures how much businesses spend on things like buildings, land and equipment.  It also includes a major consumer investment. Buying a home investment can take a hit when the economy is suffering.  You can see in this chart domestic business investment plummeted in the US during the financial crisis.  That's because companies were trying to save money instead of putting it towards things like factories, machinery and equipment.  Okay, now we get to government spending. This is the money local, state and national governments spend on things like roads, schools and defence.  Government spending varies a lot depending on each country's approach to public goods and services.  Take, for example, France, where government spending amounts to roughly % of GDP.  That's compared to % in the UK and % in the US.  That brings us to the final part of the GDP calculation.  Net exports or exports minus imports.  A lot of countries have negative net exports, meaning they bring in more products than they send out.  For example, the UK imports around $ billion worth of coffee every year,  but only exports around  million, meaning its net exports of coffee are negative.  Countries around the world collect data on consumption, investment, government spending and net exports.  This makes GDP a universal measurement and a way for countries to stack up against one another.  But it's not just the sum of the equation people look at. You'll often hear about the GDP growth rate or the percentage change in GDP over time.  Generally, if an economy is healthy, GDP growth expands if an economy is in bad shape.  GDP growth contracts two consecutive quarters of negative GDP growth are referred to as a recession.  But GDP doesn't always give a full picture of the economy.  Critics say the equation puts too much weight on production and manufacturing and not enough on services and the digital economy.  Just think of Spotify for $ a month. You can listen to unlimited music from a huge range of artists.  In the past, you'd have had to buy all of those albums separately, with each one contributing to GDP.  It's hard to factor a digital service like Spotify into the GDP equation, which is used to measuring physical goods.  GDP also doesn't measure economic equality and well-being.  So even if a country is really rich according to GDP, wealth may be spread unevenly.  Plus, GDP excludes unpaid work like volunteering for charity or child care, and it doesn't factor in costs like pollution or illegal activity.  Some experts have come up with alternative measures GDP, that measure overall happiness and quality of life.  But so far none of these have stuck. Maybe it's just too hard to put an economic value on that first sip of Morning Joe.  Hey, everyone. Elizabeth here. Okay.  Uh, so that, you know, obviously we've we've hit that a couple different times,  a couple different ways, but, uh, just wanting to kind of make sure that we.  Sorry. And there is.  Must be. One of our old lectures is on that drive.  Okay. So, uh, just just for, uh, kind of completeness.  There's two other ways to look at this. And that is what they called the production approach.  And that is where you actually, uh, do the value add.  So in other words, if we did buy in some software that was going to be part of a gaming platform,  uh, we would only measure the amount that we add in terms of value.  So, uh, the software company, uh, is going to, um, contribute the information about the software itself.  And then we're going to do the what's called the value added approach of the things that we do before we sell it on to other next,  whether that's a consumer or another company.  Can the income approach is we actually look at all the incomes generated by different production approaches.  Uh, and so, uh, that's going to be we look at everyone's, uh, wages, we look at profits and we look at rental income.  So any of these will get you. So theoretically these all you get you to the same answer.  Okay. So the economists geek out on this. But basically all of this is just different ways of coming to the same outcome okay.  And so when when they look at it and she talks in the video about different countries GDPs and some very large ones.  But one of the ways that we actually, uh, look at this is, uh, on a per capita basis,  because then we can actually obviously compare between different countries.  And so, for instance, if we look at this, uh, for this for last year in New Zealand is around,  uh, $,, uh, US dollars per, per person, uh, whereas Australia is about ,.  Okay. And again, the average for all OECD countries, about ,.  So we're just a bit above the average. And so it's just one way of looking at what are we doing versus other countries.  Now again, this is one of those things that, um, has some limitations in terms of what you do with it,  because you could say, oh, actually, we're not as cool as Australia, for instance.  Okay. Well, just because this number is higher in Australia doesn't mean that they're necessarily doing things better there.  And of course, you know, the, the um, tension that exists, particularly right now of people moving to Australia is, oh, well, I have a better life.  Okay. Depends a lot on how you measure a better life.  Is that about how much money you earn? Is that about, uh, the ability for your children to visit their nan?  Is that about the ability to easily get to a ski slope?  What what ultimately matters in terms of of the life that you want to live?  Okay. And so that's considered one of the limitations of using this GDP.  Okay. A few other things to note about this is and some of these are kind of intuitive, but just you know, this does come from uh, research.  Is that so population has an inverse relationship with the GDP per capita.  Easy maths okay. Basically the more people you have uh, the lower that goes down.  But it does mean that, uh, so for instance, the, the, uh, uh,  takeaway from this would be that higher levels of immigration to New Zealand are going to put downward pressure on GDP, other things being equal.  Okay. Transparency score also has a positive correlation.  New Zealand has quite a high transparency score. And so the more transparent an economy.  In other words uh, how much uh the government makes information available.  Uh, lack of corruption, things like that caused this to go up.  Compulsory education year has a positive correlation with GDP per capita.  Again, this one's kind of intuitive. Uh, basically, the more educated, the more clever our population is, uh, the more stuff they can produce.  Whether that is, um, AI, whether that is, um, uh, farming, whether that is some kind of new manufacturing.  Good. Uh, that's, that's in some ways intuitive. And you can kind of see here where various countries fall in in this process.  Okay. And so then the other thing that we want to take a look at is what's called purchasing power parity.  So those numbers we've been looking at GDP per capita. Those are just straight up uh maths numbers okay.  And so it doesn't take into account the cost of living in a particular country.  So if we look at purchasing power parity it does take into account cost of living.  And so then we want to look at uh,  how does our economy or how does a person's uh GDP contribution compare if you take into account differences in prices.  And this may be particularly relevant in New Zealand because life is expensive.  Okay. So if we look at this on a, on a purchasing power parity basis, uh, and then we can kind of see which are some.  And if you look at New Zealand this is  data.  Uh purchasing power parity basis. We're at only ,.  Okay. And so um, we were at I think the prior number was around .  And so on a purchasing power parity basis. And even though it's expensive here, if you go to places like Switzerland, Denmark, uh, Sweden.  Okay, they're even more expensive than here. Uh, whereas if you look at, uh, countries, I don't think China is on this chart, but, uh,  if you look at countries that are so-called emerging economies, uh, there's might be lower.  And so we can actually look at this in the context of the whole world economy.  And if we make adjustments for that purchasing power parity.  Uh, the Chinese economy. Adjusted for cost of living, has a higher GDP than the United States.  Okay. And so straight up, uh, cost of living in China is lower.  I mean, it's gone up significantly over the past decade. It's lower.  And so therefore, uh, the the total economy is, is bigger than the United States.  Now, of course, also roughly four times the population. So, uh, that that's also a factor.  But you can just kind of look at these things. And this is actually goes back to .  That's the most recent. This uh, diagram was developed. Uh, but it just gives you ways of looking at the economy.  So if we actually put these side by side so we can look at it on a purchasing power parity basis or straight up dollars.  And so if we look at straight up dollars, obviously the Chinese economy then is quite a bit smaller than the US economy.  Again recognising that the population is quite a lot larger.  Uh, and, and actually, um, New Zealand unfortunately is so small we don't make it on this chart,  but uh, Australia represents one point, about .% of the global economy.  Okay, so if we look at what New Zealand's, um, per capita GDP has been historically and where it's projected to go in future.  Uh, so there was a dip in  and then, uh, a significant rise.  Okay. And so basically, after a period of time where things in New Zealand were beginning to decline, uh, it took off again.  Now, uh, what happened in about that time period?  Yeah. Okay. And so what happened was the New Zealand government, like all governments,  most governments in the world borrowed money in order to sort of keep things going.  So they borrowed that money, uh, that came back to the economy in terms of things like, um, uh, payments for people to actually remain in their jobs.  Uh, I forget what they called these payments. They actually gave payments to businesses in order to keep their staff employed.  Uh, and, and the government was effectively paying for part of their ability to do that.  Okay. And the rationale for that was, uh, once things hit up again, they'd have that staff they could pick right back up.  And so that actually did allow for a much more the transition out of Covid.  Uh, but as that money came into the economy, uh, people bought a lot of stuff.  Okay.  And so that that meant, uh, the more people are buying, uh, then the more uh, basically the more times that money goes through the economic system.  And so as that happens, it causes this number to go up. Okay.  So then we we kind of came out of Covid pretty good.  And and the trajectory of this out of Covid is actually, uh, pretty impressive in global terms okay.  Now that's projected to continue to go up in the next couple of years.  However, uh, a couple of things have happened. Uh, the, uh, the inflation rate has been pretty significant in New Zealand in the last couple of years.  And so remember, these aren't adjusted for inflation.  So as the GDP goes up, if it goes up by a percentage that's lower than inflation, then in real what they call real terms it's actually going down.  And so uh that's actually what's happening at the moment.  And in that video she talked about uh recession.  So the economists uh, at two quarters of negative GDP growth, uh, is classified as a recession.  And we're in one of those now. Okay. And so, uh, and, you know, I don't have to tell you this.  You buy groceries at countdown or the Woolworths or whatever they call themselves these days.  Uh, and, and so life in New Zealand has gotten, uh, quite expensive for quite a lot of people.  And, uh, so a lot of businesses, a lot of, uh, people are doing it tough and really,  uh, trying to navigate what is today, uh, for, for many people, a challenging economy.  Okay. So, uh, so, so basically that is a measure of the dollars and cents going through New Zealand's economy and the,  the some of the reasons why this will be important two year project is, uh,  GDP is what drives the amount of tax that the government generates in New Zealand.  And we'll look at those numbers in a minute. But, uh, the more GDP goes up, the more money there is for the government to tax.  And the more that the government generates in tax, the more they have to spend on things like the health care system,  that education system, uh, um, various environmental projects, uh, meeting climate change objectives, things like that.  Okay. So the other thing that we talk about are what some people refer to as productivity.  So productivity is about, uh, for each hour of work how much is generated back into the economy.  Okay. And here again, uh, so the OECD average $ an hour.  So, uh, for every hour somebody works.  So whether that is a barista or a, um, high powered entertainment lawyer, uh, that that is the average of the output of their work.  Okay. Now, obviously, uh, the barista is not making .  Uh, well, in, in New Zealand, dollars, $ an hour.  Okay. Uh, so this is an average across the whole economy, and it's not what someone earns.  It's what they produce. Okay.  So it's if you're working for an organisation and you're doing a heap of work, and, uh, one of the best examples of this is,  um, these the so-called big four consultancy firms, KPMG and Deloitte and those sorts of things.  Okay. Uh, and, you know, some of you will go to work for those organisations.  We have a lot of engineering students who do that. Some of you probably work for them now or have had internships, but, um, so,  so they might be paying you, I don't know, $ an hour or $ an hour or something like that.  Uh, but they might be billing a client for your work, something like  or  or $ an hour.  Okay. Now, what happens is they take your work and then, like, some partner person reviews it and says, uh,  I think we should change that number and that paragraph and okay, like, okay, we'll send that off.  And that partner person is making way more money. Okay.  So that's actually been added in to what's being produced.  But so when we look at these numbers, the key thing to remember is it's not how much someone's being paid.  It's the amount they're actually generating for the economy. Okay.  The other thing interesting about this is the average number of hours worked.  Average Kiwi worked  hours a week. Uh, and you know, obviously many of you do way more than that, but that's the average.  And so all of this figures into, uh, what we can expect and what we can get done in terms of any government project that we're looking at.  And so when we think about things like, uh, investing in new road infrastructure or particularly around things in terms of remediating,  uh, the um, temperature gain, uh, related to climate emissions, those sorts of things.  Okay. And any of the those investments have to be balanced against how much we actually  produce and how much the government actually has to spend on these sorts of things.  Okay. Uh, the interesting thing is that the current, uh, government, actually,  we used to have this thing called the Productivity Commission in New Zealand have been around for a very long time,  and the current government actually, um, disbanded that about three months ago.  So in New Zealand, uh, there is no such thing anymore called the Productivity Commission.  And, and so some people think this is a way that, that New Zealand is behind on this.  And we should be looking at uh, like what do they do in places like Scandinavia where they have very, very high, uh, per capita GDP?  And that comes down to things like, uh, in that part of the world.  There's a lot of pharmaceutical companies. Pharmaceutical companies have very high what they call operating margins, basically.  Um, they make a lot of money creating new drugs, okay.  Because those are sold around the world to treat diseases. Turns out if you're sick, you'll pay a lot of money to feel better.  So it's it's the balance between the sorts of activities New Zealand has and those that exist in other parts of the world.  Okay. Uh, this has been used a very long time.  Uh, razor talked about on Tuesday, uh, whether or not it needs to change and some of the other things that we can measure and,  uh, all these other things play into it as well.  And so we just talk about this improved productivity, which may or may not be where our focus should be and and where your own focus, uh,  might need to be or not be in terms of the projects you undertake, can an interesting thing is that so that's that's in terms of,  uh, the production, what people actually creating with their work.  And it's about, um, uh, how much people are actually being paid and how much they're working.  But if we look at New Zealand's wealth per capita now, these numbers are per adult in New Zealand.  So this isn't all the bodies. This is the adult bodies.  So interestingly, New Zealand in  the most recent year we have the data.  Uh. New Zealand's, um, what's they say?  Mean wealth per adult. Okay is the sixth highest in the world.  And, uh, so that's around, uh, close to $,.  And that's actually way down from the year before.  Now, the biggest reason for that is one of the significant inputs to this number is, uh, wealth from properties.  Okay. And so property prices actually went down over that period of time.  And so these numbers went down. Okay. And one of the reasons that New Zealand will have gone up significantly over the  past  years is the property prices have gone up significantly in that time.  And then, uh, that's been if we look at it on a median basis and you will remember your statistics classes, okay.  Difference between means and medians. But, uh, New Zealand is actually the fourth highest in the world.  Interesting. Australia the second highest, if we look at it on a median basis.  And and so one of the questions that often comes up is should we actually tax wealth in New Zealand.  Uh, which is not done today. Uh, one of the things that uh, many countries do is they take so-called capital gains.  So it's like if you buy a property, you sell it, ten years later, you make $,.  You can pretty much put that in your pocket. Okay. Uh, whereas in the United States, in Australia, uh, in Europe, you have to pay tax on that.  Okay. Uh, doesn't mean our system is better or worse, but it's different.  And, and, uh, you do see a lot of differences in terms of some of these numbers.  Okay. Another interesting thing to look at. And I do it again.  Interesting is a relative term. Okay. Interesting.  In the context of your project, uh, is the revenue per employee in New Zealand okay.  And so what this means is if you take a company like Becca or like Fonterra or like, um, ASB and, and you actually say,  how much are they generating in revenue, money coming in, uh, versus the number of staff that they have.  Okay. And, uh, if we look at this and there's obviously a range, uh,  but this actually looks at it, uh, in terms of the number of companies at various levels.  And so the, the highest point is, uh, on average for large companies, something like around , per, uh, staff member.  Okay. So remember, of course, these are going to be consolidated across a whole bunch of different companies.  Okay. If we actually look at this, uh, for specific companies, for instance a milk.  So a milk is uh specialised milk.  It's got a protein removed. Some people think it tastes better.  Uh, so, so for a milk, uh, it's actually and this is, uh, pretty, I believe this  data, it's about $. million per employee,  and that's among the highest if we look at some of the energy providers, again, several million dollars per employee.  So that's money coming in. And, uh, so let's say they're paying an employee  or $,.  So there's obviously a big difference between that money coming in and what they're paying someone.  But most of these say in terms of the energy producers, uh, they will have a relatively low what they call operating margin.  So they might be bringing a lot of money in, but they're also spending a lot of money, say, to produce power.  Okay. And so if we look at this compared to, uh, some these are US technology companies, okay.  And obviously these would be some of the highest revenue per employee in the world.  So Apple uh, on this charts, the highest there are a few more that that are higher.  But of of mainstream companies, Apple would be the highest in the world.  So $. million for every Apple staff member is coming in the door in terms of them selling mobile phones and computers and all the stuff that we buy.  Okay. And and, uh, if you know, people actually, I talked to someone in this, uh,  course out in front one day, uh, that was actually interviewing for a job with Apple.  And, um, we talked about how, uh, the environment was and also how competitive it was to get those jobs.  And so, uh, Apple is known as a pretty bougie place to work, but also pretty competitive and demanding.  And and this will be one of the reasons why is because they actually expect quite a lot to be produced.  Okay. And obviously you can see that for these other.  Organisations, but these are the sorts of things that we think about when we look at economic activity in New Zealand,  like, would it be cool if we had a bunch of apples?  Or maybe not so much? Uh uh, I actually did live and work in the Silicon Valley for a while, and, um, it's a very intense place.  Uh, minimal work life balance. Uh, you know, hard to find time to have a nice hike, things like that.  So whether or not that's the kind of environment we don't have more of in New Zealand is a trade off.  Okay. Uh, just to kind of capture a few things.  Uh, we've had this strong GDP growth. But now, as I mentioned, we're in recession.  Uh, also, uh, today about  in  Kiwis are homeless.  So, uh, Raissa mentioned this, what's called the Gross National Happiness.  This was developed in the country, in Bhutan.  And and so if we look at this interestingly by the characteristics and he went through the formula a little bit, uh, New Zealand in the most recent.  Let's see in , New Zealand is actually ninth in the world happiness.  Okay. And obviously you can see the ones that are higher and the ones that are lower.  Uh, but ninth is not bad considering, uh, New Zealand size and all the countries in the world.  So is that something we would want to have more of and worry less about the economic numbers?  So those are the sorts of trade offs that we have to consider. Okay.  And when we look at Gross National Happiness and Raise, I actually went through this for me a little bit.  But basically these are the key elements of it. And uh, kind of the, the, the history of it.  And interestingly, although Bhutan first developed it, uh, eventually, um, they were not top on the list.  Uh, other countries surpassed them looking at the same things.  Okay. Uh, I have a, um, colleague in the United States.  And whenever he introduces something like new that like to kind of wake up the students, he says this is a big idea.  Okay, so I'm going to do that with this and say, this is a big idea, and it's what's called doughnut economics.  And this is another framework. And I've said this before, a framework is just a picture that kind of helps us to understand something.  But this one was introduced by, uh, a woman called Kate Raworth, and she's actually been to Auckland to talk about this.  Uh, and this is called Doughnut Economics.  And basically what she talks about is that the challenge for any economy is to remain in the doughnut, and that is this kind of bright green bit.  Okay. And because if you go if you push too far to the outer edge, uh, beyond the doughnut,  what happens is you begin to compromise some fundamental natural systems.  Okay. And these are some of the challenges that we face in terms of climate change,  some of the impacts that we're seeing right now in terms of pushing the boundaries too far.  Okay. And so, uh, what she talks about is if we go too far that direction, uh, we are significantly compromising the planet.  And in fact, our ability to, uh, continue to live in the planet long term.  If you go the other direction, you actually start to compromise things that are important from a society standpoint.  So if you remember back, one of those early slides I talked about were a system of systems, one of which is society.  And so, uh, New Zealand's society, and that's ranked pretty highly on a global basis, uh,  is made up of some of these things, and these are the societal elements that, uh, raise a talked about on Tuesday.  So we start to compromise things like housing, our access to water, food, health care,  education, all the things we're talking about these days in New Zealand.  And so, in fact, we're we're kind of bouncing on both edges of the doughnut, uh, and, uh,  have risks of compromising, uh, the environment as well as have risks of compromising the social fabric.  And, and so the challenge is actually, uh, not to go too far in one way or the other, but how do you actually navigate the middle?  And this will be a significant challenge for your generation in generations to come.  Uh, I can tell you I'm not entirely proud of this, but back in the day when I was in uni,  that was like  years ago, um, we didn't even think about this.  We should have been. So we didn't have the mess that we have created now.  But we didn't think about this at all.  When I had these sorts of courses, we would straight up talk about GDP and be like, let's crank that baby up, okay?  That that was it was all about that.  And we would really only consider what can we do to, uh, one of my professors used to say to goose that number, okay.  And, and so it's way more complicated now.  And when we introduce the systems thinking it's, it's a way more complicated, uh, um,  undertaking to figure out what do you do, because there's no clear answers and there's lots of risks.  Okay. Uh, so one of the things and in, uh, so remember, this section is called What Else Matters.  Okay. And so this is just another thing to take a quick look at in terms of New Zealand is, uh,  where we rank in terms of sustainability policies, a robust democracy and good governments worldwide.  And, and so we actually ranked th in the world overall and, and or on sustainability.  And then obviously these, these other numbers, uh, and and these are, you know,  frankly damn good for a couple of islands in, you know, kind of the bottom of the Pacific.  So we, we don't want to compromise some of those things in terms of the solutions that we do next.  Okay. So what does this all mean in terms of, uh, how we're actually living day to day in New Zealand?  How does this impact us and what you will need to consider when you do your projects?  Okay. Uh, couple of other just like quick bullets is that, uh, and these would be things that you would know yourself.  Um, our, our large firms are mostly not Kiwi owned.  The banks are owned by Australians almost entirely Fisher Paykel Appliances, owned by Chinese company, uh, Rocket Lab, which was started here.  Uh, is actually now the majority of their staff are in, uh, the United States, although they do still in place  in New Zealand.  Uh, so all these things.  Okay, so, uh, much of New Zealand is actually owned elsewhere, and our biggest industries are facing some very serious sustainability challenges.  Uh, most of New Zealand is made up of smaller businesses, uh, uh, so-called, uh, small and micro businesses.  And many of those folks are self-employed. They have no staff at all. Okay.  And you can read the the data there. Okay. So ultimately the government has to look at this.  And one of, uh, the stakeholders that you'll be dealing with is the government in whatever form.  So it might be the ministry of whatever, uh, it might be, um, even some, you know, things like Auckland Council,  but but ultimately, uh, for New Zealand's government, there's like  billion coming in and  billion going out.  Okay. So this is just like for your own, like, you know, current account that you pull up on the app for ASB.  It's like, yo, a little bit of a problem here okay. Because we got this coming in and this going out.  Turns out you can't do that forever because eventually there's going to be an overdraft.  So, uh, you'll notice obviously the main ways we have money coming in are the taxes.  All of us pay a little bit on companies. And then the GST, which is on pretty much everything we buy, right?  Okay. But the big things going out are all people getting NZ super okay.  Uh, social support to people who have needs that they're not able to meet themselves.  Health care which are the um the health minister admitted this week that, uh, New Zealand health care system is in crisis.  That's literally the health minister saying that, okay, education.  And so all these things.  And so we can't just be like, oh, okay, well, let's cut that one out and let's take those old people and just pull their super, okay.  By the way, I'm just just about coming up on that myself.  Okay. So, um, like, you could just kind of, uh, pull that money back.  No, probably that wouldn't work. So the challenge is to actually figure out how you would redistribute this or have more coming in,  just like for you, because effectively, this is the government's credit card.  And so if we look at, uh, this thing called Obi Gow, which is like an acronym that has some big,  long meeting, so long that I actually put it on my phone because I can never remember exactly what it means.  Okay. Stands for operating balance before gains and losses.  The total difference between, uh, government revenue and expenses number we hear mentioned in political and media reports all the time.  Okay. So, uh, basically these, these, uh, like, downward blue lines here are years in which we are spending more than we have coming in now.  It's projected the current government actually projects that this is going to turn around,  and that we're going to make just a little bit of a surplus.  We're going to have a bit more coming in than going out by .  Okay. And uh, then the other thing that's interesting about this is the percent of GDP.  So remember we just talked all about this nerdy GDP stuff.  Uh, but what's the percent of GDP that we have borrowed.  And so this is no different from like if you are working in a job when you come out of.  Here in the grad roll, and you're making $,.  Pretty good grand roll necessary in software engineering. That would be higher.  Okay. But, um, so let's say you're making like ,, okay.  And you have to pay a bit of tax and stuff.  But then you'd think about what's the percent of your own income that you could borrow without freaking out.  And so today, New Zealand is at about % of our GDP that we're borrowing.  Okay. And so it's like, whoa, should we freak out?  Well not compared to many of these other countries because these are all countries that are borrowing way more than that percentage.  So even though we are borrowing may not be, uh, something we need to, like, freak out about.  And this is kind of, uh, the history, basically the history of our credit card balance over time.  And, uh, as you can see, it was up even higher where than where it is.  Uh, it it returned to a much lower level, and we're kind of on the way back up again.  Okay. And so what does all this mean?  Okay. Uh, and, and, you know, actually, um, there's this guy who wrote all these books, uh, he's called Tom Peters.  And way back in the day, he was like one of these, like, guru types that, um, wrote all these books about what the future was going to be.  And then he was an American, but, um, he eventually became a, uh,  professor here at the business school at the University of Auckland because he has a batch in Nelson.  So he would come to New Zealand and he has now retired. And that dude's must be it.  Well into the s by now. But, uh, he, he used to do these big, long talks and people say, what does it mean?  And, uh, he said, beats the [INAUDIBLE] out of me, but something is happening.  Okay. And that's pretty much what we're saying here, is that all of this information creates a foundation,  and it's part of what we give you in order to look at what what should we do with a problem going into the future?  But the fact is, you can't predict exactly what the future will be.  So you have to come up with a solution with imperfect information.  Okay. So there's many things that play into this, uh, economic strength might happen at the expense of the environment.  Uh, almost certainly it will, uh, or the well-being in terms of some of these things like health care and education and,  uh, there's there's other ways of looking at this as well that are being discussed.  And most importantly, a systems level problem, uh, to solve requires trade offs and vision to drive real and transformative change.  And that's what we're really asking you to do in these projects, in your team,  is to figure out how can we make transformative change around some big problem?  Okay, so, uh, that is the background for this.  Uh, before we wrap up, I do want to just, um, show people what's coming up.  Uh, okay. So, uh, here's the canvas.  And, uh, so just a heads up that next week on Monday, Mark is going to talk about the social CBA.  So Mark, uh, on Monday this week talked about a traditional, uh, cost benefit analysis.  Now, uh, he's going to tell you, how do you, uh, roll everything into that?  Okay. And then on Tuesday, we have this, uh, special guest speaker, uh, she's called Dame Professor.  Pretty big title. Okay. Dame professor Juliet Gerard.  And she was the, uh, previous government's chief science advisor.  So she was in that job all the way through Covid stuff.  She's going to talk about the way they've navigated systems thinking for some very major government problems.  Now, people ask about the mark that's related to participation in this course that happens that day.  Turn up. You get % on the day. Don't turn up, you lose %.  So if you've been blowing off this course, those of you watching, uh, you should turn off on that day.  Okay, so just a heads up on that. Another heads up that beginning in five minutes, the, uh,  quiz quiz one for this course opens in five minutes, and then it remains open till ten tomorrow evening.  So find an hour somewhere in there and take the quiz.
