All right. Welcome, everyone. Uh.

Welcome, everyone. So today is the day that you have been, uh, waiting for or dreaded.

I don't know, uh, quite where it's positioned in your consciousness, but, um,

we are going to, uh, go over the brief for next week's week nine system week.

Okay. And so, uh, let's jump into that. Oh, we got a quick half, sweet ass.

Uh, so, uh, this is what we're going to do, obviously. Uh, we're just going to introduce it.

We're going to give a little more background to it. Uh, we're going to talk about the brief.

Okay. So the brief is, is essentially, you know, the instructions for what you're going to undertake.

And then tomorrow, the written brief, uh, will be published.

Uh, and that actually comes out in a couple of different documents, one of which is called the deliverable.

And the deliverable document is essentially the specification for what you're going to do and how it's going to be formatted, stuff like that.

And a separate document called The Challenge actually outlines.

Uh, here's here's what you need to consider. Here's the, uh, way in which you want to structure it, things like that.

Okay. So two documents will come out tomorrow. By midday.

We'll talk a bit more about that. Uh, questions to help with the analysis.

Sort of some things you want to think about. Uh, don't forget the tools.

We'll get into that. Points to consider logistics.

How does this work next week? Uh, room hours, uh, time commitment, all that sort of stuff.

And then, uh, supporting materials. Okay, so this is the challenge for this this year.

So I'm just going to read through this. I you can read it as well.

The challenge for Systems Week 2024 is to develop a detailed business case that addresses the high food costs faced by Otara, New Zealand consumers.

Your team will select any two segments problem spaces okay.

And we'll show you what those are of the food supply chain in New Zealand and craft one problem statement for each of these.

So you're going to have two separate problem statements, one for each what we call segment which we'll get into.

You must consider the societal costs and benefits as well as economic cost and benefits.

Your final recommended innovation should include an extensive discussion of how it,

or they address the overall problem of high food prices in New Zealand,

as well as consider how to make the system more resilient and less susceptible to weather,

health emergencies, transportation bottlenecks and other disruptions.

Okay, so in very simple terms, it's no surprise that, um, food costs in New Zealand have reached kind of a just,

um, you know, scary, uh, um, level of escalation over the last century, uh, through and since the Covid period.

So that's the systems problem for this year. Okay.

And I also speak with Rob yesterday, and, uh, he said that, you know, students need to understand that when we present a systems problem,

essentially what we're saying is how could you move Antarctica to the northern hemisphere?

Okay. So when we put a systems problem out, it is something just like we've talked about all semester that is complex.

It's wicked. And so there is no simple answer to this.

And so, uh, this is not something that you're like, oh, just do these three things.

And the food cost in New Zealand will be sorted. So it is something that we expect that you're going to grapple with,

that you're going to have to work through all different aspects of uh, and that's why we chose it.

Okay. We always try and choose something that's relevant. And so obviously this is relevant to every single person in this room.

You know, this is something we're constantly struggling with complaining about, uh, dealing with uh, sharing with our mates that sort of thing.

Okay. So that is the challenge for this year.

So why are we doing this and what are some of the, uh, underlying, uh, issues that contributed to us choosing this problem?

Okay, so the data shows that the average household was spending, uh, just under $300 a week on food.

I can tell you, I, I live on my own, and I'm spending, like, more than that.

Uh, it's up 28.1% since 2019.

So essentially, in the last five years. Okay, uh, from 22 to 23, just a subset of this period, uh, a food basket of common foods.

So that's that's a set of, um, foods that most people consume that, uh, they tracked from an economics standpoint.

Uh, up 56% just in one year period.

During during this overall period, food prices dropped marginally just in, uh,

they actually dropped about three months ago and then have ticked back up just a little bit over the last couple of months.

Okay. But those drops are the first since 2018.

So very, very. A minor drop and the first one in a very long time.

The current prices are the highest since 1961, and obviously that's in in real terms.

And so the amount that we're all spending on food is the highest it's been in New Zealand since 1961.

And this is, uh, not surprisingly, disproportionately impacting elderly and children.

Uh, only 5% of 2 to 14 year olds were meeting their nutritional needs.

And this is all based on stats in New Zealand, as well as some other economic analysis and forecasts by a guy called Woodruff.

Okay, so, uh, everyone, of course, will see the headlines around this will be familiar with,

um, all of the, uh, um, talk and, uh, um, discord and uncertainty around this.

Uh, so these are just a few of those headlines, uh, that we've seen recently.

Uh, this is this is a very let's see.

So this is, uh, food prices rose, uh, half a percent in August 2023, uh, seasonally adjusted point four.

So just in one month, uh, last year, they were up, uh, half a percent.

And then, uh, this is very recent household still in the grip of high food costs.

So this is something that is not going away for a while.

People are talking about, well, post-Covid there needed to be some settling out.

In fact, this might kind of settle down again. Uh, then people talked about after some of the weather events of last year that those were

wreaking havoc and those were having a huge impact and that we might see that settle out.

But in fact, we haven't seen that there have been only very marginal, um, blips of those costs going down.

And in fact, now five years out, uh, these costs are dramatically higher than they were,

uh, not only in as an item, but as a percentage of someone's household income.

So obviously, costs of living in New Zealand has gone up in many categories.

Uh, but this is one of the most significant. Okay.

And so if we actually look at this chart, uh, this is from prepared by Stats in Zealand.

And uh, interestingly, this is actually uh overlaid with some of uh foodstuffs things as well.

But if we look at the uh, percent of monthly food inflation over a period of 2022 to 2024.

So this is literally by month. So we're looking at monthly increases, uh, in the front of this graph, something over 7% a month.

Okay. And then escalating somewhere up to 12%.

And also settled back out now and are almost even.

But this is the kind of month on month increases we saw for food over a two year period.

Okay. Uh, this just kind of emphasises some of that.

And so the question that we're asking you is can anything be done about this?

How might this be improved manager or reduced. And that's the essence of the systems problem for this year.

Uh, because there's lots and lots of aspects to this, lots and lots of inputs to this.

And some people say, oh, wow, this is just like part of life in New Zealand and there's nothing we're going to do about it.

Uh, other people say, oh, it's the um, it's the so-called, um, duopoly, the, uh, food retailers,

it's, uh, Woolworths and, um, New World or, uh, foodstuffs and that, uh, that's the problem.

We should just, like, tax those guys. We should just like, uh, make them reduce their profits.

And that will solve the whole problem. In fact, there's lots and lots of aspects to this.

And and so your challenge is to look at this entire process and think about how it might be improved, managed or reduced.

And what we're going to actually ask you to focus in on is, um, just two of those aspects which we'll go through in just a moment.

Okay. So what we want you to think about, and this is really important because we saw some excellent work in the team project.

Uh, but we also saw what one of the comments from our own team was.

Lots of systems. Um, not as much thinking as there could have been.

Okay, so remember when we called the systems thinking and, uh, people in general did quite a good job of going through the cases,

uh, going through the process, going through the steps, uh, which is a key piece of what we're doing.

But the most important piece at all, which we'll come back to at the end of this, is the thinking,

and it's to actually structure your group in such a way that you can manage the processes.

Okay. And that's that's a piece of it. You need to crunch those things.

You need to be able to, um, do the editing, all that sort of stuff.

Um, but also don't forget to stop and access, you know, you have a very large group of people, 30 to 35 people.

And, and you can access their thinking, okay.

And get people thinking synergistically, get people thinking as, uh, sub teams or as some specialist, uh, groups to actually consider the problem.

And so that's, that's the key part of what we're doing.

Okay. And so that one of the things we want to consider here is how can the societal needs be balanced.

Balance that should be with shareholders, producer expectations, New Zealand's role in the primary sector.

Because of course that will not be a secret to anyone that in New Zealand we are a significant country of agriculture.

Okay. And the so-called primary industries are a key part of New Zealand's economy.

And so we can't solve this problem at the expense of farmers or growers.

We can't solve this problem at the expense of people who are working in those environments,

or who are working somewhere in the the chain that goes from the producer to our own supermarket.

Okay. So those and we will have talked throughout the semester about things like GDP and and

so are agriculture and food production are a huge contributor to New Zealand's economy.

And so we have this high food cost price. And we have to be able to try to solve that without actually creating other problems by uh,

um, this dis incentivising or negatively impacting other people within the process.

Okay. Uh, so those are all the things that your team has to try to balance.

So also, what are the impacts and risks of climate, transportation, labour and logistics?

So, uh, the uh, production of, uh, distribution of and delivery and purchase of food is a very, very complex, uh, supply chain.

Or they also what we refer to this as a value chain. And remember when we talk about innovation, innovation is about creating value.

So all of these people within the process are creating some chunk of value.

How can we actually look at the value that's created at all of those levels,

and see if we can impact the overall in terms of food costs that we're ending up with at the supermarket.

Okay. Um, does this mean still time periods?

Okay. So, uh, so, uh, people always ask well, over what period of time?

Okay. Because when we think about something like food costs, obviously what we're looking for is we go to war.

So I was actually reading a thing, uh, very short, um, tangent.

And that is, I was reading a thing, uh, in, uh,

one of the newspapers this morning and it said people refuse to call countdown Woolworths that to Kiwis.

Um, that supermarket will always be called countdown.

No matter what it says on the sign. Okay. And so what we really want to do is when we go to countdown, that supermarket with the green sign.

No matter what it says, we want to be able to buy something for less when we do our shop.

Okay. We want to do that next week. But in fact, the innovations to come up with are going to take a while to execute.

And so the original time period that we want you to look at in terms of the urgency of, uh, impacting food costs is five years.

And the way we came up with that is the current government has about two years left, uh, within the cycle of, of their own.

Um, uh, um, what do they call that? The, um, coalition government.

Yeah. Okay.

So there's two years left, and then there will be another election, and we could either have three more years of the same or similar government,

or we could have a different government, but there's basically five years left in terms of of those election cycles.

And so whatever actions that you come up with will need to be executed and regulated and, um, legislated within that time period.

So that's why it starts with five years. Okay.

That the medium term is ten years.

And what we want to look at there is how could we actually do some things in terms of policy

resiliency that would actually help us to stabilise food prices to a longer period of time.

And so that's why we said this 5 to 10 period. So that's what what you'll be looking at in terms of your systems project.

Okay. Who are you doing this for? And so remember, what we've talked about is your team for systems is essentially a consultancy.

Okay. You have been hired by the government to do this.

And the rough cost, if you look at 30 to 35 people at just like regular hourly rates, like you say,

you were working at a place like Becca or Deloitte or McKinsey because all these people turns out,

charge quite a bit of money for your time, and that would be anywhere found.

What level you're at 2 to $500 an hour.

Okay, even for the likes of you folks.

Okay. So you wouldn't, uh, be making that much, okay.

But they they actually charge you out a lot more than they're paying you, because that's how they make money.

And, you know, the people who are further up the food chain can drive like Gucci, BMW and have nice houses in Takapuna and all that sort of stuff.

So, uh, that turns out to be a very large number.

So if it you could assume that the government would be paying something on the

order of $1 million for a week's worth of your team to come up with this problem.

So basically $1 million to, uh, answer this question for the government, come up with recommendations.

Uh, so what new innovations can be developed to tackle the high cost of rooting out to our ceiling over the next ten years?

Okay, that's your challenge and that's what you're doing it for.

Now, keep in mind that your challenge is to make a recommendation to these ministers for

innovations to improve escalating food prices by focusing on two of the four segments.

We'll show that in just a moment. Uh, for the food supply or the value chain, supply chain or value chain,

recognising there are many stakeholders outside of the jurisdiction of the government.

Okay. Lots of people related to, uh, the cost of food are not under government control.

So the government cannot just say, oh, hey yo farmers, you actually are going to make half that amount of money next year, okay?

They could put in certain laws, they could put in taxes, they could put in provisions that over time they had to shift their crops, things like that.

But they're not directly under the control of the government.

So you have to think about what the role of the government in this process.

But that's who your client is. Okay. We keep mentioning these four segments.

And so I wanted to expand a bit on this.

And so if you think about the segments that uh, go into delivering food at the retail level at the, at the yum countdown level.

So the starting point is production is actually, uh, farmers producing food or,

uh, raising cattle or, um, raising sheep in the sheep station, all of those bits.

Uh, and that's a significant part of what we pay at, at, uh, you know, Skinner people used to say like Cash Hill.

But, you know, we scan stuff these days. Okay. Then there's the processing.

How do you actually, uh, take the, um, the cattle and turn it into, uh, mince?

How do you actually, um, uh, take the kiwifruit from orchards in Tauranga and, uh, take them through the supply chain?

Uh, how do you actually take, uh,

the plant based material to produce some of the plant based foods that we now have available in the supermarket as well?

Uh, so this is true whether we're talking about a meat based or a plant based diet.

Uh, so so then we move to the distribution and logistics.

We have to actually shift this stuff around the country. We have to be able to, uh, store it, warehouse it, all of those sorts of bits,

and then finally to bring it to the level of us actually buying it in, uh, Foursquare or wherever, wherever we shop.

Okay. So, uh, of course, on the entire course and in fact, the course is leading up to it are around innovation.

And so at this point, you should be pretty good at coming up with innovations.

Okay. That's that's fundamentally what this is about. And so what we've listed here are some possible.

But this is a very much a subset. Some possible areas that you might consider for innovation in each of these segments.

Now you're way smarter than we are because our goal is to actually give you the tools to, um, know the processes of innovation.

But in terms of the ideas that you come up with, you're likely to come up with way better ones than this,

just handful that the teaching team has developed. So these are very much examples.

So you don't want to say, oh hey, that's what they're looking for.

So let's pick one of those and roll with that. Now we're not looking for anything.

We're looking for things that represent innovations and improvements.

So that's what you want to be considering in whichever two segments you choose ten.

So the way this works is your teams could. Going to choose two of these segments because in fact, our thought was for a week.

To choose all of these is pretty overwhelming. So choose two that you're going to focus on.

You'll still want to understand what's going on in the other two segments.

But choose two that you're going to focus on and innovate around.

So you might pick. Uh, production and retail.

Uh, or whichever one you want. They don't have to be next to each other.

It can be any two within, uh, the four segments that make up the value chain or supply chain.

Okay. One thing. So, uh, you will hear constantly.

And, um, Rob always reminds us that, um, he said our students don't read newspapers.

Okay. And I know some of you actually do read newspapers or you read online newspapers.

Um, but whenever you do look at, um, news stories, there's often a lot of talk about, uh, what's called the supermarket duopoly,

the fact that in New Zealand we have very concentrated, uh, um, retail or delivery of the last bit of food.

Okay.

And so this is actually directly from the brief, uh, should we recognise the current food retailer system in New Zealand, dominated by a few players?

Okay. Foodstuffs and Woolworths, these two giant organisations that control, uh, the final bit of the way we get food in New Zealand.

Any changes to the system are likely to be complex in terms of, uh,

of regulation and legal structures, perhaps with significant challenges to feasibility.

Because remember, when we talk about feasibility, it's can you actually do it?

And so the feasibility we talk about it often, especially in 3 or 3 in terms of the technology or the science.

Okay. Can you actually make something happen.

But also remember included in feasibility is uh, the regulation is the, um, legal aspects is the, uh, current market structure.

So there could be a whole lot of things. Uh, because let's say your answer was, oh, hey, we just, um, make, uh,

Woolworths and Foodstuffs, um, cut the prices in half and allow lots of other people to sell.

Okay. That could be extremely unfeasible.

So, uh, be careful. If you look at innovating in this segment, no doubt there is innovation to be undertaken here,

but we're just giving you a heads up that the innovation in the retail sector is not straightforward.

And it's, um, likely to be pretty high risk.

We'll just continue on here. So therefore solutions,

improvements or other novel approaches to this problem space would likely need to be very well thought out and heavily supported.

So don't just like randomly say, oh hey, we're going to do this. Uh, thus innovate in this area may well be a high risk endeavour,

meaning you might be able to pull it off and have impact or you might not be able to.

And those are the team leaders who are at the, uh, McKinsey team leader session on Monday.

One of the things that, um, Eric,

one of the consultants talked about is that you want to come up with a solution that actually has a high chance of getting done,

because that's the key,

and that there's actually trade offs between solutions that are likely to get executed and ones that might be more elegant that just sit on the shelf.

So that's what we're looking for is something that has a level of feasibility that it can get executed.

Uh, teams, I'm going to let you just read the rest of it there.

So but it's just kind of a heads up if you choose the retail one.

Be sure that you look deeply enough at, uh, what's really required to make it happen.

Okay. So this is just kind of an overview of the scope for the project.

So, uh, as we've just talked about,

New Zealand government and private economists have highlighted that we have historically high and rapidly escalating food costs.

Various studies and initiatives have been conducted or are being considered, and we're going to give you heaps of resources.

There's been various studies undertaken by the government. Uh, there's been things that are cited by, uh, the OECD, uh, all sorts of resources.

Okay. So that's kind of the context that you're going into when you take on this project.

Okay. Our food costs and associated impact. So what's the what's the outcome of that food costs and associated impact.

Uh, on cost of living is that crisis levels?

Know this is uh, I talk to huge numbers of you, uh, that are like, uh, dude, as soon as I graduate, I'm out of here to Australia.

New Zealand is just getting unsustainable. Okay. Uh, one of our panellists, I, uh, spoke to you last week.

Uh, that was, um, the thing on Tuesday. It's like. Yeah, all my mates are in Australia.

I'm the only one still here. Okay, so that's the kinds of impacts that we're actually seeing, in part due to food costs.

Uh, food costs are impacting our competitiveness as a country.

Uh, they're impacting our health and wellbeing and quality of life.

And so, obviously, if you're spending heaps on food, you have less to go out and spend in terms of hanging out with your mates,

in terms of doing travel, in terms of spending time with your family, all sorts of things.

And so that's, that's, uh, the, the impacts that, uh, New Zealand is grappling with and why this,

uh, problem is so important that the government is undertaking this analysis.

So, uh, again, just a list of some. Possibilities for new innovations, um, digital technologies, different ways of doing things.

All of those are things you might consider. But this is in no way considered to be a comprehensive list.

Just a few ideas. Okay.

Often, uh, weirdly to me.

And of course, we do this all semester.

Okay. So I get up here and I talk about, yo, there's this systems thinking thing, and it has causal loops, and it has, uh, it has iceberg models.

It has all this stuff. And then sometimes the students will actually get the brief and they totally ignore all this stuff.

They're like, oh, hey, we got to do, like, the case and we've got to like, chill out the forums and we got to like fill out the Excel spreadsheets.

Okay? The the reason we have taught you these things is to be able to understand the problem.

Okay. And and remember, you have quite a lot of resource 30 to 35 people.

So when you get, uh, into the problem and you begin to consider this take for people on your team, and of course I do get you have not memorised this.

Okay. And so you take those four people, you be like, oh, you know, that causal loops thing,

remember that was like in the week to like don't know what that was all about.

But like Peter was mentioning that Amanda keeps talking about stakeholders.

I don't know if there's something in that. So take those people and throw them at that to actually go understand that, okay, go, go nerd out on it.

Figure out what does that all mean? How does it actually work when you're undertaking a problem and then they do that bit?

It mean everyone in your group has to be an expert on every single one of these tools,

but use the tools because they will help you get to better solutions.

Okay, so once you actually get into the brief and from the, uh, system standpoint,

figure out how you're going to use these tools, uh, you don't need to use all of them.

People like, okay, well, we do that one, then we do that one.

No, just be aware of these as something that's actually going to help you do a better job on,

uh, the project, on understanding the problem and then coming up with solutions.

Okay. So just key point is, uh, don't forget to use some of the things that we've talked about in terms of, of coming up with better systems thinking.

This is actually, uh, the, um, framework that was, uh, presented to the team leaders, uh, by a McKinsey this consultancy on Monday.

And key key thing here is this is one process that you might use to undertake a systems problem.

Okay. There are others. Or you might actually choose to use parts of this and then do your own thing.

But the really key thing is that black box on the front.

And that is to define the problem.

Because that's that's really the key, is to be able to think about how do you start this off and how do you define the problem.

And uh, for those of you who remember, uh, Juliet Gerard's, uh, talked one of the points that she made,

remember, she's the, uh, was the former prime minister's chief science adviser.

She said one of the things that engineers and scientists are very good at is defining the problem.

Okay. And so that's where you're able to leverage your own discipline, uh, preparation and thinking along with systems, thinking that we've,

uh, taught you to be able to define the problem and remember that you're going to have to actually define two problems,

because we're asking you to undertake two independent problems is to, uh,

get a really clear definition of those so that you can take on the next steps of this process.

Okay. So that's really the key is to first understand the problem or problems,

and then to work through whatever process that you choose to use to come up with solutions.

All right. So let's talk about the five cases or the four cases.

So the first case we're going to be doing is the strategic case. And the strategic case.

You all did this in the team project. It was done fairly well.

But the key is remember you need two problem statements and you're gonna have one for each one of those segments.

So when we think about. The problem statements.

You need to consider them in terms of cost and or resiliency.

Okay. So we think about both short term and long term and what's happening there.

And since you're going to have two problem statements you're going to need to wait them.

Are they of equal importance or not. If not why not.

Which one did you wait more. And then how does that impact the rest of your report?

Again, go back to really understanding that problem.

Use your root cause analysis. We've talked about five whys and problem for ease back in 3 or 3.

Peter just referred to all of the tools we currently have for systems thinking and going through.

Really understand what your problem or problems are.

And then there's going to be many stakeholders to consider. So how can you improve for one type of stakeholder without sacrificing the other?

Remember you're balancing the societal needs versus all of the needs within the chain itself.

Okay. It's not just what the government wants.

It's not just what the people want. You need to find the balance. You need to understand there's conflict, conflicting requirements.

So you're going to have to justify your requirements. That's something very important.

It's not just what you think, but how did you get that information.

What are those key requirements? How do you develop your key success factors and how are you going to iterate against them?

Remember that the key success factors come from those necessary requirements, and that you need to address any conflicting requirements within there.

So that is the bulk of the strategic case. There's a bunch of iteration that's going to happen in the strategic case.

And furthermore, when you move on to the economic case, remember the economic case is using your strategic case to understand your problems.

Now when we talk about the economic case, the economic case is all about your options and getting to your shortlist.

So the first thing you're probably going to do is once you have your problem statements,

or even as you're still developing your problem statements, you may have a subtheme Ideating ideas.

You're going to have an array of options or array of outputs.

Not all of those are going to make your long list okay.

Your long list is a breadth of constrained options. Which ones actually sound feasible right off the bat?

We definitely see teams come up with options that are just completely off in outer space.

I've mentioned this before and 3 or 3, but we've definitely had teams start 3 or 3 with using a Thanos snap to get somewhere.

We do see even crazier ideas. Originally on the whiteboard for 403.

Get rid of the super crazy ones. Make sure they're constrained.

We're going to be able to assess them.

Then we talked about two types of assessments we compare to our critical or key success factors in our problem statements.

We compare to DFC. So desirability feasibility viability.

Peter already spoke a bit about feasibility. That's sort of the big one there.

So is it actually solving our problem.

Does it have the capacity to solve our problem if it's only going to solve the problem for a really small segment of the population,

maybe that's not an option, is it?

Can we do it technologically? Regulatory. Realistically.

Is it balanced? Can we implement it? Can it be done in the timeframe we're expecting?

Those are all things that fall on to feasibility.

Now the key here, when we're doing the economic case and we're narrowing down to our shortlist, we're getting rid of options.

Those options don't disappear. They were lost for reason.

They didn't meet one of these criterias. That needs to be explained why.

It doesn't have to be paragraphs, but probably a sentence.

You might group some options together and go, no, these are gone.

You might see options and go, actually, we're going to recycle them and package them together to meet needs.

Key with KSF and DFA. You can do this in series so you can do Csrf than DFA.

You could do DFB, then Csrf, or you can do them all together.

That's up to your team to manage and decide what they think and how they want to do it.

Once you get to the end of your economic case, you should have your shortlist.

So that's going to be your do nothing and two, three, maybe even four other options.

You're going to look at or four other packages of options. And that's where we get into our financial case.

For our financial case we're looking at a high level social CBA.

So consider the high level cost. You're going to be talking about orders of millions.

Okay. Granularity, rough costs of design, professional services, construction, land acquisition.

We need rough costs there. Think about confidence level of those number you're getting.

Are they 5% 50% 100% confidence.

Where do you fall that's going to impact your CBA.

Then think about your benefits. So what are the main benefits to society?

Can those benefits be quantified? If they can be quantified, can they be monetised and can they be funded?

Those are all things that go into the financial case.

And then what are our intangible social impacts, the ones that we could only deal with qualitatively?

Can we discuss the narrative negatively and effect on the four capitals and the indicators from the Lsat, from the financial case?

You will then arrive at your preferred way forward.

So the option that you're going to take forward and from that you're going to develop your management case.

So your management case is going to talk about your expected outcomes and measure of success.

So what are your clear and measurable goals. How do you know you're going to implement this.

What type of phase is are you going to go through. What can you do short term within a year or two.

Short term within five years. Medium term within ten.

How are you going to be within budget within the timeline and then the quality of actually meeting that.

Think about high level timeline. So years or multiple years you're not going to probably go month to month.

That's a little bit harder to do. That one is go to even deeper and think about the level of detail your audience is going to need.

We don't need day by day. And think about how is whatever you implement going to be funded?

Does it fit within an existing budget? Are we going to be taking things from other budgeting sources or from the budget elsewhere?

If so, what are the ramifications of removing funding from something else?

Do we need to take on new debt, and how are we going to pay that off?

All of this needs to be discussed within our management case. So some points to consider.

These are just points. You don't need to include them. Is the public actually going to support your plan?

Where do you need the. Or do you need to prioritise more vulnerable populations?

And how are you going to address the needs of different groups. Because they're going to be quite different.

How do commitments to things like climate change, education, infrastructure balance with the food price and the cost of living?

With respect to that? How do all those things fit together in a problem and within your solution?

Will policies cause populations to change their lifestyles, styles and habits?

Where does your plan sit together with the UN sustainability goals?

There are plenty of the UN's SDGs that tie into this.

So think about social equity, poverty, housing, employment and what will your plan look like in the short term versus medium term?

So again this is called systems thinking. Peter, do you wanna jump in here?

Uh okay. And so this just emphasises. Oh that's perfect.

Let's see. Okay. Here we go. Uh, this just emphasises the point that I made, uh, the slides before Amanda jumped on there.

So, uh, and, uh, when Rob spoke, those of you who were here listen to the recording.

Uh, Rob talked about. And Rob started this, uh, what are we, 16 years now?

Uh, and he talked about what he calls the crunchy bits.

Okay, this is Rob. Uh, that's where he kind of talks in our meetings as well.

So the crunchy bits are this thinking. Okay.

And so, uh, we want you to understand the processes.

We spent a lot of time going over those things.

But to really think about this crunchy bit and figure out how you're going to allow, uh, time and, um, the right sort of, uh, folks within your,

uh, within your team structure to do the thinking and, uh, some very, you know, we talked about, uh, the variation in the team projects.

Uh, some team, uh, projects were excellent in terms of the thinking, okay.

And scored extremely well and came up with things that were really very outside the box.

And so, uh, if you remember, uh, the challenge was around keeping the America's Cup or other things here in New Zealand.

And one of the ones that I remember that, um, was, was quite outside the box is to actually partner up with Australia.

Okay. That basically New Zealand, because of its size, had inherent limitations.

And the example was the uh, Women's World Cup where, where we did partner.

So that was actually something that that team had researched and thought about.

And that was just one example of many, many things that, uh, were where the thinking came in and were pretty outside the box.

So be sure you do that. Okay. Uh, we're gonna give you heaps of articles, reports, references, stuff like that.

It's all on canvas. Uh, some of that we're going to show you at the end of today, but most of it won't be visible till tomorrow with the briefs.

Uh, you you'll do other research. Okay. But this is not primarily a research project.

It's a thinking project. So you're going to look at all the materials, you're going to do some research on your own,

and you're going to think about, okay, what could we actually do to solve this problem or to impact this problem?

Because almost certainly there's not a full on solution.

There are just things that can be done to impact it.

And and so your focus is going to be on analysis and synthesis to be able to come up with a recommendation.

Okay. So that's just kind of again a reminder that that's where the focus of the project is.

So as a team leaders found out most of the team knows every team is going to get a room booked on campus for three hours each day.

You're going to make use of all the different communication tools you used for the team project.

So that's all on you. On Tuesdays, every team will be meeting with the staff in a zoom check in mentoring session.

Q&A. All team members should be at that meeting.

Okay, team leaders, you're responsible for creating and managing the schedules and making sure everybody has access to links.

And then for every individual team member, make sure you're active on teams communication and your management platforms.

If we think about what's going on. Your project is due next Friday at 5 p.m.

If you want to submit early, go right ahead. Again, you're kept at a size limit for your report.

Your deliverable is going to be a report that is a maximum of 20 pages long, with an appendix up to 20 pages.

You're also going to have a 3 to 4 minute video, and we'll have a team photo as well.

Your page limit does not include the cover sheet and the requirements of the cover sheet.

It does not include the table of contents and does not include the references.

Everything else so pretty much for the report deliverable is included in your page count.

So. Teams often want to see what a video is.

So this is an example from last year. And one member of your hang on we get the bit the lines sort of.

So one member is actually going to do this video as if presenting your recommendations to these ministers okay.

And it's just one person.

There's no slides because this is the kind of format this would take place if you're actually dealing with ministers in Parliament.

Okay. So the honourable Minister of Health and esteemed members of the ministry.

I was under the oversight team lead for 20 consulting here at the University of Auckland.

Today, I presented a proposal for improving New Zealand's health care system for all.

New Zealand's health care system, despite numerous efforts over the past three decades, remains under significant strain.

The introduction of fuzzy water into I Could Fly Away in 2022, and the subsequent to bypass the interim New Zealand Health Plan,

backed by an $11 billion budget aimed to centralise and improve the system.

However, the reactive nature of our decisions and funding, coupled with inefficiencies highlighted by an obesity and other partner nations,

means a decrease in wait times and increasing accessibility is yet to be observed.

Plus, we still reckon with resource shortages and workload challenges.

On top of this, vulnerable communities continue to experience inequity within our fragmented system.

I'll proposal offers a strategic plan to tackle these health challenges over the next 10 to 15 years.

We've pinpointed four questions. The demand for healthcare professionals is growing faster than the supply.

Our facilities are overwhelmed, leading to longer patient wait times.

Our vulnerable groups in New Zealand has significant, healthy obstacles indicating our access barriers.

And lastly, communication breakdowns in our healthcare system lead to inefficient inefficiencies

and a result of mis allocated resources and patient care discrepancies.

Relying on overseas healthcare professionals is not a long term solution.

New Zealand must invest in the healthcare infrastructure.

Innovative medical training and retention programmes to attract local and international talent.

Our goal is clear, equitable, timely medical care for all.

This will ensure a brighter future for every New Zealander.

Now we suggest a proactive approach that emphasises education to mitigate the healthcare system pressures.

This aims to attract more individuals to healthcare, particularly nurses, offering enticing professional development opportunities.

A key aspect of our suggestion is enhancing accessibility and awareness around disabled and vulnerable communities.

We're not just focussed on the care, but also ensuring everyone is informed and access the services they need.

We do this by improving the government health website.

A step towards this is enhancing digital services and accessible accessibility and help keep our come to life seamlessly.

The New Zealand Government's healthy vision emphasising nurse professional development,

extending the healthy active learning programs in all schools and community centres,

and refining the government's health website to better serve and inform our communities, especially those disadvantaged groups.

Our goals are ambitious, yet they're achievable.

We aim to reduce the average employment wait time from over four months to listening to them within just 15 years.

On top of this, after ten years, the measured turnover rate of nursing graduates will reduce to 50% from the current 57 two years after graduation.

In terms of the website, a 20% increase in the website of a site within three years of implementation.

Funding this text in the package requires 600 million over 15 years.

When you start with 150 million from the Wellbeing Budget 2023, with the remaining source from the 24 billion vote health fund allocation.

This avoids any need for borrowing funds. So d20 consulting presents a transformative solutions Alto's healthcare challenges.

We're amplifying health, education and skills. We're enhancing the healthy active learning programme, and we're bolstering nurse training.

Our plan includes a culture, culturally sensitive health care website and awareness campaigns with only a $600 million budget.

We're primed for consultations and a rapid rollout, aiming for a streamlined, fair healthcare system for every New Zealander.

Thank you for your time and we look forward to working with you in the future.

Okay. Pop it up there.

Okay. So, uh, as I mentioned before, uh, the brief will be, uh, posted on canvas from midday tomorrow.

There will be a canvas announcement, just like on most Fridays. On Fridays.

Really? Uh, and so, uh, what we propose is that over the weekend, you read the brief,

everyone on your team reads the brief review of the associated materials.

Leadership teams can organise communication structure and logistics.

Uh, which I'll actually be sending an email tomorrow to the team leaders.

Uh, but you can't full on start this over the weekend.

Okay. Team leaders can get organised. They can structure this, uh, they can figure out how they want to, uh, have the team go after it.

Uh, but the work actually doesn't begin until sometime from 8:00 on Monday.

Okay. And, uh, also keep in mind that there are students who are working on part for projects, have other assignments.

So, um, they need to actually read the brief, but, uh, you might not want to, like, hit people with a whole lot over the weekend.

Okay. And of course, uh, have have a great experience.

Um, good luck with it. Uh, have some fun with it as well. You would have heard the panellists talk about their own experience on Tuesday.

And so, um, you know, be sure that you do have some fun with it as well.

And then we probably have time for just a quick question or two.

Okay. And if you don't if you do have questions that we don't answer them today, reach out.

We'll make sure we get them answered. But anyone have questions. All right.

If you take a look at today's canvas page, we do actually have exemplars posted for the reports.

So you can see that now. Um, and then was there a question.

About like and what would you say again, what should be the what should be the like rough distribution of work for each section.

So what's the distribution. Okay, so, uh, you're welcome to head out.

Uh, the question was just what should be the rough distribution of work per section?

I don't know if we actually have a great breakdown. We find that most teams probably are really starting to think about options and option assessment.

Towards the end of Tuesday. Um, so really, those first two days are really understanding the problem and figuring that out.

Um, yeah. Okay.

Yeah. Give us some feedback about problem statements.

Did you expand on that?

Like for example, within the context of the American. Oh, you want overflow?

