Um, so we'll be covering four topics, including finding information, reading and writing effectively.   And then also look at presentation skills.   So by the end of this lecture, um, you should feel confident to find and evaluate literature, um, related to your topic,   to analyse and synthesise what you are reading and then summarise and paraphrase us information, um, into your own words.   So it's going to be a lot of, um, practical work for, uh, this particular lecture.   Um, so you'll be doing a few activities and peers as well.   Okay. Um, so, uh, what I want to do first is, um, just do a quick poll to see, um, what you know about finding information.   Um, so to access this, you can use your phones and then, um, take a picture of the QR code,   or you can jump onto slido.com on your web browser and enter that number.   And then there is a question. Um, so the question is how do you find how do you currently find academic information.   So you can choose one or more of, um, those options.   Thank you for someone taking the first jump. Because I think there's about  of you here.   So, um, we will keep going until there's at least  responses just in the top right?   This is anonymous, by the way, so I can't see who you are. You won't get in trouble if you choose.    I asked you if you take. All right.    So we're at %.    Okay. So I'm going to go to the next page and we can see the results.    Um see what you have chosen. So in terms of how you find academic information um oh.    That postal working properly. Technology failed. So, um, we're going to have to raise our hands because the poll hasn't worked properly.    So if you Google it. Yeah.    So most of you Google it. Yeah. So that's a really great, um, starting point.    Search the library website. Not so many people, but you know that it's there.    Um, ask friends and family. All right.   Okay, cool. Um, and it doesn't matter if you.   You said or done. Yeah. Awesome. So Google seems to be your friend.    Um, and apologies for that. Technology fail. Okay.   Um, so the same thing is going to happen with this question as well.   Um, so what of which one of these options do you need to do a literature review?   Um, so we'll do a hands again. Um, do you do it to learn more about a topic?   Yeah, just a few of you. Okay. Um, discover what is already known.   Yeah, but more, um, identify gaps in research. Cool.   Uh, learn about research methods in your field. Not so many of you.   Okay. Understand where your contribution sits in your field. Right.   Okay. So all of those answers, um, are correct in terms of why you need to do a literature review.   Um, so if you are carrying on and doing other, um, projects and you need to do a literature review,   these are some of the reasons why you would do that.   Came up and now it's come through.   Um, so yeah, for the literature review, it's all of those, um, responses.    Okay. Um, so I just wanted to share, uh, the difference between.   You may hear the terms literature review and systematic review.   Um, so just to go through what those are, um, on the top of the screen,   you can see the processes or the steps that are used by both a literature and a systematic review.   Um, so we have your topic selection, conceptualisation, searching, evaluating, filtering the information, appraising and then writing.   So this is a standard process for both of these options.   Um with a systematic review. Um this describes the reviews methods.   So it means that they are transparent, reproducible and defined before the search gets underway.   So this is really important because it helps to minimise any bias that might result    from cherry picking only certain types of information in a non systematic way.   Um, in contrast, a literature review um doesn't usually apply the same level of rigour, um, in their methods.   So this is because um, unlike systematic reviews, they don't aim to produce an answer to a particular question, often a clinical question.   So literature reviews can produce, uh, can provide context or background, um, information for a new piece of research.    And they can also stand alone as a general guide to what is already known about a particular topic.   Okay, so I just wanted to go through, um, your assignment.   So there are four phases, um, to the literature review assignment.   Um, so from the icons on the screen, you can see that there's four assignments.   We have slides, we have notes, we have a peer workshop and we have a video.   So these are all things that you need to participate in in order to pass the literature review assessment.   Um, so the topic that you'll use is the same topic as your group project.   So hopefully all of your group members are here.    Um, you'll be expected to focus on two articles, and both of them must be from HCI human computer interaction publications.   Um, it's really important that it meets that criteria or you won't lose marks.   Um, ideally, we would like each group member to select to different but related articles.   So as a team, you should be working together. Um, be aware of what your team-mates are selecting and how you can build on that as a group.   Um, this helps us to see that you have an adequate, um, breadth of coverage in terms of the material related to your topic.   Um, when you are selecting your articles, try to choose from those that are written from  onwards,   and we'll go through an exercise on the library website to do that.   Um, all of the articles selected should be peer reviewed, um, or peer refereed.   Um, and the classic QA today is structured around these assignments.   Um, and we'll be doing lots of in-class activities, um, so that you feel comfortable navigating this information for your assignment.   Are there any questions so far? Cool.   Okay. So we're going to start with our first of the four topics.   Um so this one is looking at finding information.    So before we can start searching for literature for our review, we need to identify some key words from our research.   Um, question or topic. So I'm going to put up two examples and would like you to identify what those keywords are.   So the first uh, question can immunotherapy be used to treat peanut allergy in children.   So what are the key concepts um that you can see through that question.    What are the key words or concepts that jump out at you for immunotherapy?   Yep. Cool. So yep.    The children. Yep. And the peanut. Yep. Peanut allergy.   Awesome.   So this question has three, um, key words or key concepts or topics in the statement that we can use and that will help us with our searching.    Um, you need to be very, uh, strict, I guess, with, uh, using the right words to get back the right information.    Okay, so for this question, we have environmental impact of refuse dumps in Auckland.   So what might the keywords be for that one? Environmental effects.   Yeah. Good. Yeah. Perfect. Yeah.   Exactly. So. Environmental impact review. Stumps in Auckland.   So using those keywords, you'll be able to find the best information for your topic.   Excellent. So, um, the next activity is, uh, in your groups or in pairs.   Make sure, um, uh, write down your own research question and identify keywords or topics.   Um, so hopefully you have that ready. So we're going to use your own work, um, throughout this activity or throughout this lecture.   So make sure that you've got the information that you need. Okay.   Do we have a group that may wish to share their, uh, research question and then tell us what their keywords or topics are before I choose a group?   Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Thank you. When is the best time to go to the chapel chapel and maximise the learning opportunity for fishing education and.   And of live now from just one of that massive.   Yeah. So what did you write that down to? How many concepts? So obviously the first one on the chapel.    Yeah. Um, fishing education or learning opportunity for life.   And then, uh, when middle class, uh, I feel like you can you can, like, pick and choose like, a couple in a couple.   Well, and see what different types of books. Yeah, exactly.   Yeah. So you could even split that question, um, that research question and half or even and and thirds and then build, um, sections of it.   So we'll go through an activity like that, um, later in the class.   So thank you for sharing that example. Um, does anyone else want to share another example.   So this will help you with your assignment. So yeah.   Anyone. Okay.   Next. Huh? I got to pick on someone.    Okay. Shall I pick on this group at the front who are avoiding eye contact?    Um, do you have a research question?    So, um, for your project or statement? We're still figuring out what our true size is.    Not as big. Oh, yeah. Please.    All right. Okay. So broadly speaking, what is your topic about, um, what kind of technology?    Um. It's about genuinely important interactions.    Um. Um. We're kind of exploring.    What? So yes, they've done all the other groups doing so.    I think another group is focusing on sounds. Oh, yeah.   Right. Um, that. I think.   Of action at that. That's what I'm doing.   Okay, so as a starting point, you could look at embodiment as one of the concepts.   Um, the example that you talked about before that was another group was about sound.   Um, so that could be another key concept. So if you can try, maybe use their example throughout this lecture.   It will help you when you, um, refine your topic, um, a bit more.   So yeah. Awesome. Thank you. Okay.    Um, so what, um, what I'd like you to do now is take your, um, take your research questions.   So for the group in the front, use, um, the other groups idea just for this process, um, and start building up, um, synonyms.   So synonyms are other words that are related to a particular term, but it may bring some different results.   So for example, um topic one um from the immunotherapy question.   Um, another synonym or a synonym or a different way to, to look at that might be therapy.   So instead of looking at immunotherapy you're looking at therapy.   Um topic two uh, in our statement it was about peanut allergies.   But we could just use the term allergy. Um, so what we're trying to do is build a range of different, um, keywords that we can use in our searching.   Um, and again, for topic topic three, instead of writing children, you could write child or you could use a wild card,   which is, um, represented often by an asterix and put child Asterix and that will look at child um children uh, as well.   So, um, we're just spend five minutes going through your research question.   Um, so start building those topics. So identify your topic first as a keyword.   Um, and then look for synonyms. So you can use Google for that.   Um, you can use a dictionary or a thesaurus if you're familiar with those, um, resources.   So we'll just do that activity and then we'll, uh, spend five minutes here.   In the. Okay, so just another minute on that.   Okay, we will keep moving. If you are still working on your synonyms.   Just keep going and I'll keep talking. Uh, wanted to show you, um, the additional synonyms I've made up for the immunotherapy example.   Um, so topic one has the original keyword, um, at the top and two synonyms.   Topic two has the original keyword and four um, synonyms.    And topic three has the original keyword and three synonyms.   So by developing the synonyms for our keywords, we start to build a framework for our search strategy.   So this um what we're doing now is using a concept table, um, to develop those search strategies.   So synonyms can help us identify additional concepts that may help us broaden, narrow or refine our searching.    And this becomes really important when we are, um, actually using the database and trying to find the right information for the assignment.   Okay. Um, what I'd like you to do now is this is with your own research topic.   Um, the keywords and the synonyms. It's, um, we want to extend these concepts using boolean operators.   So I would assume you've had experience using Boolean operators.   So you should be familiar with and or and not um as concepts.   So for the concept table we'll use two of those um operators.   So we'll use the end operator um and the or operator.   So the end operator um is between should be located between the topics.   Um, so we want to look at topic one and topic two and topics.   Right. And then the order operator. Um, you locate that between the keywords and the synonyms.   So that's going down. So the end will go across and the others will go down.   Um, so I'll just give you a couple of minutes to, um, add that to your tables.   Um, and what this will do is it will help us, um, strengthen our searching.   Um, and just to show you what the example looks like with the immunotherapy.    Uh, question. Um, so we've set it out like this. Um, again, always going down.    It will link the key word and synonyms and then the and going across in a row that will help link our topics, connect our topics together.    Okay. Okay. Moving through. I did want to share with you, um, an HCI related example.    Um, and what can happen if the search strategy isn't quite right?    Um, so here we can see the concept or keyword human computer interaction.   Um, so this is very broad. Um, and this by itself would generate thousands, um, or even hundreds of thousands of results.   So it really wouldn't work for us as a search strategy.   Um, the second one that we've got here is, um, it's a phrase.   So this is how does human computer interaction impact productivity of construction professionals with, um, tablets on site?   So this phrase contains a lot of ideas. Um, so it was a bit like the first example, um, that we had earlier in the lecture.   Um, if it was entered into a database, it would be really difficult to find any results,   and it would probably return zero result because there's too much happening in that string, um, for the database to, um, return results.    Um, so, uh, the third strategy, this is, um, it defines two separate concepts.   So human computer interaction is the first one. And then construction professionals is the second one.   So both of these are in quotation marks. Um, and it's it's a good fit for a search strategy.   So this would likely yield, um, a manage a manageable amount of resources.   Um, and we'll use this example in a search for topic two and topic to, um, lecture.   Okay. So if we go back to our assignment outline that we looked at at the start, um, we've now completed the topic selection, um, part.   Um, so we know our research problem or our question or we are working on it and   we have an example that we can use and we're able to identify our keywords.    Um, we've then looked at synonyms for uh, um, keywords.   And then we've constructed a final concept table that includes boolean operators.   Um, and, and or um, so what we want to do now is find the right places to access the information that we need.   Um, and in the earlier poll at the start of the lecture, um,   some of you felt that Google or most of you felt that Google was really useful, um, as a starting point.   Um, so this is a good place to look for content.   But remember, we need to look for HCI content. So, um, it's important that we choose, um, literature that comes from those spaces.   Uh, so, um, thinking about information on a sliding scale, um, we can generally find general information from a range of sources.   So looking at that from the left of the screen. Um, here we have Google.   Um, we have librarians. We know that we can get general information from them.   Um, we have physical books and we have library databases.   Um, and each of these, uh, tailored to different information needs.   Um, as we start to shift right across this timeline, we can see a change in the type of information that we expect to find.   So Google Scholar, um, as a platform, provides access to many peer reviewed and peer refereed academic quality journals and articles.   And we might also see, um, this on also at home pages or websites as well.   Um, research group pages and also relevant conferences and journals.   So often these websites have material that you can use.   Um shifting further. Right. Again, um, we start to get into the HCI specific, um, types of material and we can narrow down the venues,   um, that we will use to find the right information for this assignment.   Um, so HCI specific resources include ACM Digital Library, um, Web of Science and Scopus starter bases, Science Direct and AI a a a explore.    Um, so we'll be looking at ACM Digital Library in this class.   And um, you can also use the IAEA explore if you wish.   So, um, going back again to our assignment.   Um, so we've now, uh, we can cross off both articles must be from HCI publications.   So you have an awareness of what suitable platforms you can use for your searching.   Um. All right, what we'll do now is, um, we're going to go to the university library website.   I'm sorry. And the green link, uh, the green at the top.   That's the URL for the university library website.   I'll go live on this on screen to show you. Um, but if you can get that website up on your laptops or your phones.   Um, we'll walk through the process of, um, finding a specific HCI database.   All right. So after you enter library Auckland or Act NZ the links change, the website path changes.   Uh but you should see something like this. Okay.   So what we want to do first is adjust to the very bottom lift.   Uh, there is a link for databases. So we want to click on this link.    And hopefully you should see this page. So this is the database searching.   And in that we're going to type. ACM Digital Library.   So you should see a result. You should see one result. Um, and it has digital library.   And then it tells you it's available online. So what you'll do is you'll click on the title.   So ACM Digital Library. And this takes you to the record information for this particular database.    Okay. Is everyone at that stage? Yeah.   Okay, we didn't want to click on ACM Digital Library down here in The View Online.   And then ask us for our details. Um. Okay.   So you should then see a page like this. And if you just if you look at the web address it has easy proxy in um in the header.   So this means that you are connected to the website through the library.   And it grants you access to all of the material that is in there.   If you try to go to the ACM Digital Library just by typing it into Google,   you're not going to be able to access all of the um, articles and journals, um, and conference proceedings at it in there.   So make sure you go through the library and make sure it has easy proxy and their web address,   and you'll know that you're in the right place and you'll find the information that you need.   Um, okay. So we are going to do the search that I mentioned earlier.   Um, we're going to do an advanced search so you can click the advanced search link.   And this allows us to pop in, um, the examples that we had in that concept table.   So, um, I'm going to use the, um, construction one that we had earlier.    So I'm going to type in, uh, human computer interaction.   Um, so I'm putting it into quotation marks because it's a phrase and it knows to search for that phrase as it is.   Um, you can try it. Uh, what's a dash between the human computer or not?   Um, so if it doesn't work, why am I tried a different way? It depends how the database is set up.   I'm going to, um, click on this little plus button here at the edge because I want another line.   Um, so this is what I'm doing here is I'm ending. So this is the end process.   So, um, the first line as topic one for me, and then the second line is going to be topic two.    Um, so that was construction professionals.   So um, again, um, putting it into, um, quotation marks because I want it to search for that particular phrase,   that string, um, construction professionals. If I just if I lift up what's out there, would search.   Um, human computer interaction and construction, human computer interaction and professionals.   And there'd be far too many results. Um, so we want to go down here next to the publication date.    Um, remember, part of the requirements for the assignment is that you look at articles from  onwards.     Um, so we want to select a custom range, and we want to make sure the year is from, uh, where was it, ?    Um, up to our current year.    So it will search for this, um, example with search for human computer interaction as a phrase, construction professionals as a French fries.     And it will only look at material that will only return material that has been published between  and .    So this meets the criteria for our literature review assignment around the type of material, um, that we want to see.    So if I press search, it should hopefully work. Um, you can also see down the side that there are tips about the best way for searching.    So every database has its own specific way of searching.   So if you can look for the the tips or the hints. Um, sometimes it's called a thesaurus.   Um, look for that information and that will give you guidance on how you set up your, um, your keywords.   All right. So if I search that, um, it's returned  results.   So that's pretty good. We can manage that, um, that set of responses.   So we can, uh, quite easily filter through those  results and decide if they are, uh, um, helpful for us.   Okay. Are there any questions about that? Okay.   All right. Um, just to look at the results, um, on the left panel, um, we have authors.    So here we can see, based on our keywords, who the main authors are around these topics.   Yeah. Can you zoom in? Can I, uh.   Can I, I don't know. How do I zoom in?   Huh? Is that okay? Okay, thanks.   Um, yeah. So down the side we can see, um, the authors for this particular topic area.   Um, if we go down, we can see, uh, what types of, um, we can see the publishers.    We can see if there's any awards for these papers.   So there's a best student paper on this topic. So that might be one that we prioritise looking at first.    Um so use these filters um, on the, on the left hand side to help you refine your results.   Um, this is really helpful if you get sort of ,  results back.   Uh, you can use these. Um, we also have sponsors.   Um, so if there are particular types of sponsorship, um, that may introduce bias to our, um, uh, to our literature.   So we might want to be a bit mindful about that as well.   Um, and we also have the publication date. So we can see that a lot more happened around maybe , uh, in this particular area.   Okay. Cool.   So, um. Okay, what we might do now is we'll go back to, uh, the.   The search. So go back to, um, go to the library, go to the database link, and we're going to search for the other HCI platform.   Um, so this was. I Tripoli um a space and then ex employer.   So this is another HCI platform that is suitable for your literature review.   Um, so we're going to go in here and we'll just have a look at it and we'll do the same thing.    So we'll use the same keywords. So we have clicked on the title.   We go down. We're going to look for this one at the journals.   So click the view Online and go into the journals. And we'll type in the same, um, the same words that we used before.   Um, so again, we're going to go advanced search. And that allows us to pop in the two topics.   So this interface looks a bit different and it includes the end with the ICM at the end between the topics by default.   So those are the some of the differences that you'll see with the different databases.   Okay. So we're going to pop and human computer and interaction.    And then we are going to go down and put in what's that.   Construction professionals. Um, so this particular, um, platform has an engineering focus.   Um, so we may get a different set of results. Uh, we also want to make sure we go down and change the publication year to , .   Um, so we want to make sure it's searching for publications between the, um, parameters that are in the assignment.   And then we again, we go to search. And it returned nothing.   Okay, so we'll go back again and take the.   And French and. So I've taken out the, um, the connector between human and, uh, computer interaction.   And again, limiting that to   to  and trying that search again, don't kind of get nothing.   Um. So my next strategy is to try it without the, um, Asterix, uh, but that the Speechmatics.   And again, take it down to .   Okay, this is promising. So this particular database doesn't like the use of quotation marks as a string or phrase.   So you can, um, try different options if it doesn't work the first time.   So that took three attempts and it went from zero results for the first two now to .   Um, and again it has some filters on the left hand side.   Um, so you can look at author. You can look at affiliation, um, where they, uh associated.    Um, so if they've come from a research centre or from a university.   Um, which university? In which country?    Um, so you can look at all that information, uh, and, uh, help you, um, refine the, uh, results that you want to look at.   Are there any questions about that? Okay.   All right. I'm going to flip back to our next shot. Okay.   Um, so what makes a good article? Um, so I've just listed a few points.   Uh, on screen. Uh, these are based mainly on the assessment criteria, but you also might want to think about, um,    whether the article has been cited and how many times it has been cited and   whether the cited publications are relevant to the topic that you are exploring.   Um, you might also want to look at what, um, authority the author has, and we're going to touch on that, um, and the other topics.   Um. So, um, what you can do now is, uh, for the next five minutes, um,   use the concept tables that you have made and start looking into ACM, and I triple E for, um, potential literature resources.   Um, so if you replicate what we've just been doing, but use your own, um, keywords and concepts.   So we'll spend five minutes on that. Um, and then, uh, we'll move on to the next topic.   Uh, don't forget to record everything that you do.   So, um, the way that I tried different approaches and I needed to try three approaches to get the results I wanted on.   I triple A, make sure you document that because it's part of your, um, part of your methodology, part of how you found the results.    So that'll be useful for the second part of your literature review where you're making notes.   Yeah. Because that's, that's a second, um, assessment. And that bundle of four.   Okay. So we're just going to be five minutes.    Um, so while you're looking, if you can find one article, um, and save that, we'll use that for the rest of the lecture as an exemplar to work with.    Um, so if you're in your groups, try and find different articles each, um,     so that you can start to build up, um, uh, really good coverage of your topic.   Yeah. So use these, um, use these two platforms and find one article to take forward.   Okay, so just one more minute on your searching.   And don't forget to note what you're doing. Okay.   Does everyone have an article? At least one article that they've found.   Just hands up one piece.   All right, we'll do another minute. You.   If you're having trouble finding the right article. Is that your keywords?   Does anyone what you'd like to talk about? What might not be working for you?   Yeah. Uh, yeah. When you use generic keywords and things like that, that's basically it's kind of hard to tell what go actually.   Proceedings of the International Conference on Insurrection, which doesn't really narrow it down a lot.   So the proceedings will be a bunch of, um, conference papers that are presented.   So those will be suitable as you can, um, if you find those, what were the keywords that you used?   Uh, human computer interaction perception and environment.   And how many results will be here? Uh, about four grams.   Okay. Thank you. You said that. That sums up. Yeah.   So you could narrow it by, um, making it, uh, I hopes , .   That should reduce it down to. Okay, but you probably need to add in another concept, another keyword, um, to narrow your topic.   Um, so try adding another another life.   Uh, and see if that helps. Do you have any suggestions?   Okay. Yeah. This environment is very general.   Yeah. So you might think of something more specific than or what is in that environment.   You said. Yeah, yeah.   So if you're having trouble, um, replace your keyword with one of the synonyms.   Um, and see if that makes a difference. So in the peanut allergy, um, example, if we put allergy, that would give you a lot more results.   Um, but if we were going to go peanut or soy allergy or something like that, that would narrow the results.   So yeah. Um, great example. Thank you for sharing. So yeah, if it's not giving you the results you need pop in one of the synonyms that you developed.   Um, and the first topic. Does anyone else need some help finding or refining their search strategy?   Are you closer to finding an example that we can work through?   Grab the first one on your list. Okay, um, I think we will move on, but hopefully you have an example that you can use.   If you haven't got one, you can use the second reading that is in an hour module on module five on canvas,   and you can use it to work through, um, for the rest of the examples.   But hopefully you've got one that is a potential candidate for your literature review assignment.   Um, so what we're going to do now is look, um, at, uh, we'll be taking a break soon, but we'll just get started with the second topic.   So this is about reading effectively. Um, so again, there's a Slido, but we might just skip through.   Um, how did you choose your first paper.   So from these options, um, is there a particular option that worked for you?   So I ever think about that and we'll just do a hands up poll. Okay, so for those who have chosen a paper, hands up if the title match to your topic.   Cool. Three of you. Yeah. Um. Hands up if you chose the paper because you read the abstract.   Yeah. Awesome. Yeah, that's a really great tool for, um, sort of scanning or skimming the information.   Um, so hands up if you know that the author is an expert in the field.   Okay, are a couple of people. So, um, if you want to, you might need to check the author's, um, credibility, uh, as well as part of your process.   Um, so hands up if you weren't sure, but it seemed like a pretty good match.    I a few people. Yeah. Lovely. Thank you. Um.    And hands up again. You guessed right. You don't really know if it's a suitable, um, type of thing.    Yeah. Awesome. Okay. Yeah. So the way we choose the paper, um, can vary.    Uh, so it's really good to see that there's quite a range. Um, in class.    It's all good starting points. This, um, it's not wrong to do it that way, but there's ways to make it much more effective.    Um, and a better use of your time as well. Uh, okay.    Um, so, um, what we're going to do is we're going to look at three different reading approaches.    Um, and in terms of reading the literature to, uh, that you find more effectively.    So um, in this particular example, this is a three step approach to reading.    Um, so working from left to right, first you can go in with a quick scan.    So many of you have already done that.    You've indicated that you looked at the title or you've looked at the abstract and that had meaning for you with your research topic.    So you're already starting the process of of reading more effectively.    Um, at this point, um, you should have a fair idea about the content in the article based on those, um, top four, uh, definitions.     So looking at the title, the abstract, potentially the introduction, but they can be quite long.    Um, and the conclusion, um, your next step then is to make a decision.    Um, do you want to read more or do you want to discard the literature.    So is it relevant for you or is it not?    Um, so the five C's below and that bottom of column one category context, correctness, contributions and clarity.    Um, that can be really helpful, um, for you to determine whether you want to move forward.    If you do want to move forward, you'd go to the next column, column two.    Will you read the majority of the content.    And then after that, when you get to that point, you can decide again, if you want to keep reading the paper.     And if you do, you would go to the third column and fully read the paper.    Um, enough so that you're able to actually re-implement that research, um, because you are so well informed and, um, in tune with that literature.     Um, of course, if you don't want to go to any of these steps, then you discard the article.     So that's the first, um, approach.    The second is to look at the um authority and currency, the relevance and coverage and the summarising and contribution.     So each of these topics has a range of questions.     Um, and these markers are designed to prompt you to think deeply about your article and explore how well, um, it can answer each of these questions.    So for an example of authority and current say, um, you might explore, uh, why or how this person, the author, may be considered an expert.    So when we did the poll just before, um, many of you didn't know if the author of the article was an expert in your field.    Um, so you may need to explore more, um, in order to answer that question.     Um, in this instance, you may, um, yeah, you may need to search wider.    So an example of relevance and, um, coverage, uh, as whether advertising has been included, um,    and to what degree this might, uh, impact or influence the article or the content that you're reading.    So advertising or sponsorship can skew what you read and it can strengthen bias within that literature.    So this can be misleading and it may not be suitable for your literature review.     Um, an example of summarising and contribution is whether the main argument of the article    is sufficiently clear enough for you to understand how this contributes to the field.    So these are all, um, points that may be helpful for you in determining if the article that you're reading is appropriate.    Um, and again, make sure you underline highlight points as you read, um, this is what you would do with the examples.    Take notes, annotate the article with any queries or questions, and then you can bring that back to your project group.    And you can talk about the articles if you need. Um, and this will help again to balance out the coverage that your group will do as a whole.    Um, and then the third approach is a  question process.    This was designed by a computer science staff member here at the university, um,    that asks you to reflect on particular aspects of the literature in order to determine its suitability.    Um, so some of these are some of. These questions have appeared in the other two, um, reading approaches.    Um, for example, uh, what are the publication details and what are important concepts and ideas?    But there's also some new strategies here in particular.    Question two. So what is a one sentence description of the paper.    And this is a really good approach for um, reading and evaluating information.    And it also will help you with your writing.    So it forces you to structure your ideas, um, and your notes in a way that you can add that to your literature review.    Um, notes a section. Um, so after you read many articles and, um, a variety of articles, it will start to blur.    So having a one sentence description of the paper, um,    that's in your own words can be really helpful for you in managing, um, the information that you find.    Um, so I think what we're going to do now is, um, we'll just take a five minute break and then we'll come back and we'll do the activity.    You'll choose one of the reading methods that we went through.    So we went through three. Um, these slides are also on canvas if you want to go back through it.    And then you'll apply it to your article. Um, so it is now, uh, .     So we'll come back at . I think this.    I. What does that mean for?    Is it just like to go and reassess in the gym? Yeah, that makes sense because yeah, we just view.    But I just wasn't sure I. Thank you.    Mean, look at. It was difficult because.    It is kind of curious to see how many questions.    To the test. But more than that.    Sorry. I thought you had asked me to.    That. Should have.    And. How does that work?    What do you do? So I drew I. And so.     I'm the questions. So. I always have.    Yeah, I think like. Skin mask.    My daughter. That's not a kitchenette, isn't it?    That's. Not yet.    But here's another thing that. This.    Because he couldn't use it. Because he's teaching time.    Can I have a slide over? And I look at it in struggles.    Is it just slow updating a slider? I don't know, it works in my other lectures.    So I don't I don't know this. I get it?    Yeah. I did back up slides.    Okay. Just. Because I told.    I was. So.     For me. Know when. All I say.    I don't. Know how they're not having problems with the power.    Forgot to turn it upside. Down.     So it's going to be really dark in here for how long you should use this kind of lives.    Uh, yeah. Emergency power is on us.    Other than that, it's on the next generation.     Everything's on Netflix, and, like, so good. Just seems unsafe for something to happen.     People wouldn't be able to see you. Because I painted the windows.     Yeah. That's right, since I. I'm going to miss you.     We don't need you here. You know the cookie cutter?     Yeah. You know. I.     Yes. But. But yeah, sometimes you can't.     Pretty much done, isn't it? Let's see.  grand.     Unlikely to lose two pictures in one session as we often excuse my son.      I need to try to restore. The world.    Yeah. I'm not ready for the status quo. Yeah, I feel like, um.    Yeah. I think we might be like kids.     They have to like that. That's. Yeah. What's that like?    I mean, I think know, like. I.    You go have. Let's go back. Other things.    Heaven. And earth.    Sometimes. I feel like.    Of course you go. And to hold. To report before the problem.    Okay. Right now I'm thinking the election is a waste to a bunch.    Of projects like. It's like this.    Like it is. My ten years old.    You know, somebody else in the  s with the other ones?    Yeah. You know, I find that just, like,  times out of.    That's a. Let's see how far out I was too.    That's a really how I. Want to see that.    And it stop.    Homestead us back up again. All right, um, we'll get started again.    Uh, back into the second topic. Um, so if you haven't found your article, um, use this time to, uh, have another look.    Uh, but please, um, follow those instructions, select one of the reading methods, um, and apply this to your selected article.    Uh, we'll do this probably for five minutes, I think, as an activity.    And I'll just sit, um, on this one.    Uh, so this was, uh, created by, um, computer science staff, um, and, uh, it may be a good way for you to, um, effectively read your literature.    Um, we did have a question about, uh, number ten.    So what important references should be followed up? Um, what was meant by followed up?    And so this is about looking at the references. So you'll have a reference list at the end of the article.    And it's actually finding that reference, um, searching for it in the library website.    Um, or it may actually link to it as well. Click the link and then have a look at the article via the reference article.    Um, so you want to make sure that the references that are used are appropriate and that they're accurate as well.    Um, so that's what's meant by number ten. Um, so we'll spend five minutes.    So that'll take us to uh,  .    Um, and then we'll move through the rest of the lecture.    So, um, make sure that you, uh, apply one of these methods to your article that you've selected.    And if you haven't got an article, you can use a module five. Um, second reading.    Um, and then we'll do some feedback from a group or two as well.    If you're in your groups, feel free to talk about what you're finding.    This is going to. Right.    I can still like. You could like.    Click to the bottom. Rossetto.    Yes. In the air. Okay, just a couple more minutes on this activity.     Okay. Um, so I think we'll come back now.    So, uh, is there a group who may want to volunteer to share what they found?    Yeah. Um, I wasn't too sure about the publication information, but I found when it was published.    So did you use this? Sorry. Did you use this, um, method of publication?    Yeah. Yeah. So the first one I only just found was published in .     Thousands to find out. Like by using the license, the audit.    All right. What's the title of that of your article called getting Users to Pay Attention to Anti-phishing and evaluation or Protection?    Oh yeah. So that one also for slightly out of the time frame for .    Uh oh yeah. Yeah. So yeah, when when you are looking at it, look at all of the details.     Um, so does it is it a conference paper or a journal article?     It's an article. Yep. Yep. And you found the, uh, the year for that one?      Yep. And what else did you find about the publication with, uh, was it clear who the authors were?     Yeah. There's, like, uh, multiple. Yeah.     Yeah. Where it was published.     Where was it published? I found this on the ACM.     Always. Does it link to a conference?     Yes. Uh, conflict and anti-phishing working and phishing weapons in Pennsylvania and Pittsburgh.     Yeah. Okay. Yeah.     So is that the obvious? Yeah. So, yeah. Um, and this is going to help you.     It's sort of at lines of authority to what you're finding.    Um, do you have comments? Tip. Robert.    So I guess what you want to collect again, this is what you see in the references section for the paper,     is enough information that someone else will be able to go and find that paper.    Um, and the right conference by those authors in that period.     Um, so quite often if you're using Google Scholar or other tools,    there is a site tool and it will give you the full citation for the things that you're looking at.    Um, so you could use that to get all the publication details.    Um, but. But you do want to collect. Yeah. It's easier to collect when you've got the paper in front of you than to go back in    three weeks time when you're writing your final report and try and find the paper.    And so that's why it's recommended that you. Capture the publication details as you go through.     Thank you. Yeah. And you can start to if you find that's a relevant one, uh, relevant article, you can start to build a table.    Um, and we'll look at that shortly. Um, but build a table with your resources so that you can go back.    And as Robert said, find them again.    Um, often we don't take enough details about the literature that we say, and then we spend hours, um, trying to find it again.    Yeah. So make sure that you are documenting, um, everything that you do in terms of your searching where you find these, um, these, uh, resources.    So, um, if you've looked at the ACM Digital Library,    make sure you've noted somewhere that that's the the database that you've used so you don't spend time looking elsewhere.    Awesome. Thank you. Um, does anyone else want to share their findings?    Um, otherwise. Oh, yeah. Most of you are using these methods?    Yes, that would be helpful. Um, a it shows a more robust again, if you know which reading method you are using,    um, you'll want to compare all of your resources using the same method.    Um, so you want to make sure that it's, um, accurate.    Uh, and you're measuring oranges, uh, apples and apples, not apples and oranges, um, kind of thing.    So use the same approach when you, uh, reading and do note down your findings.    So you might find some of these, um, questions.    So from this ., some of them might be criteria that you use, um, to determine whether um, it's going to be suitable.    You might not use all of them, but you'll start to build a table.    And we're going to look at that next. Um, and it'll show if you want to see any difference.    Did any. Like all the references associated with the article.    We have to make them more secure. Is there any kind of.    The reference only. They want to make the rules.     We do have a notes section that we'll get to in topic four.    Um, this there are some criteria that you need to include with the notes part, you know.    Um, but you might use a reference manager. So you might use something like um in note or uh, um refer works refer to manage your, um,    your literature that you find so you can save it into the so that you have that and you can make notes in.    Is that what you mean? You can take notes about that particular article?    Yeah. Um, so, uh, most of you should have been, should be using, uh, citation management system.    Um, so you may want to look up in note and ref works if you haven't ref works is, um, highly recommended by this university.    And you can use that to, um, you can save the citation from the library website.    Um, also from ACM and I triple E um, so you would save that as a citation and then you can attach the, um, the actual article to that citation.    And then there's a separate section there where you can make notes. Um, so you might find it handy to use that as a way to manage.    Um, some people don't want to use that. So they might make up a table.    Um, and then add them in there. So this there's different options as whatever works best for you.     But yeah great question. Thank you. Yeah.    Yeah. I you say some of these questions in here.    Um, I mean, things like point of paper is being published.    Um, it might not actually have been reviewed very well.    So you and Tim Hardaway,    who teaches us one of the claim contributions and how well is it supported when you think a published paper would already be good,    but also, you know, often you'll read a paper and go make some claim like increased precision by %.    Um, but there will be no data to support. And so that's,    that's useless as a paper because if you didn't and and so these questions are    trying to give you a way of understanding where the value is getting in the paper.    But I seeing what those contributions are. What's the evidence that you provided.    Yeah. So, um. Thank you. Um, okay, so, uh, just to summarise the section.    So if you're stuck with how to get started, um, try with a set of relevant articles.    So, um, think about whether your tutor has shared any articles with you that may be related to your project.    So that's a really good starting point. Those articles will have reference lists attached to them.    So you can look through, um, uh, and see what inspired the author.     Uh, make sure you identify keywords and synonyms, um, and then scan the abstract for a, uh, quick understanding.    And from there you can decide where to go. Um, when you find a relevant article, look for information about the author.    Um, you can again, you can look at the reference list for articles.     Uh, this is this will tell you where the author drew their inspiration when they wrote the article.    Um, you can also look at who was citing your article.    So this is about the future. Um, so what publications have come after this article was written?    Um, so this will tell you the impact of the article, uh, and its perceived value to other, uh, researchers.    Um, so one aspect of postgraduate study, um, that many students struggle with is the amount of reading that you have to do.    So you have to do a lot of reading. Um, you don't need to read everything that that comes through on the first pass.    So you can skim or you can scan that literature, um, whether it be read in full,     you'll make that decision after you use, um, strategies like we've covered today.    Um, but don't under estimate the amount of time that you will need for this assignment.    You will need to read a lot of material, um, before you find, uh, what actually matches and works well for your topic.    Okay. Are there any questions about that before we go to the next topic?    Cool. Okay. Okay, sir.    Uh, we're now going to look at writing effectively.     So we've gone from finding that information. Um, we've moved to reading the information,    and now we're going to look at how you might put together everything that you've written in a way to make your writing more effective.    Um, so we're going to look at three, uh, straight four strategies, um, this time around,    um, how to help you construct your writing, um, in an appropriate academic format.    Um, so a good habit when you get, um, to get into is when you're researching your topic,     um, is to make sure that you write about everything that you read.    Um, so the best way to develop your writing skills is to practice.    Um, so don't think about writing. Actually do the writing.    Um, and I would encourage you to write regularly, um, and get feedback on that writing, if you can.    Um, as well. Um, so we're going to look at four tools that will help you get started.    Um, the first one is a mind map. Um, so this strategy uses brainstorming techniques and notetaking methods.    Um, so these can help you develop an outline for your writing.    That then narrows down to a specific, um, section or theme.    Um, so if this resonates with you as a visual learner, this might be a good approach to take with your writing.    Um, so consider following those, um, five steps on the side there.    Um, as a process to begin your writing. So, um, from the mind map, we can.    It's not right. So in the middle of the mind map, we have your research question.     Um, so the stats, um, this is your question or your topic.     Um, from here you can see that there are markers. There are lines that extend, um, in a variety of directions.     And these extend to different concepts. So, um, we can see one of the concept terms in the middle is better addressed.     Um, so that's towards the end in bold. And then this branch is off into two directions.      So above it, it asks better in what sense.     So it's prompting you as a writer or as a researcher to understand what they mean by that.     And then below it asks, how is, um being addressed?     Um, how is it being addressed currently?     Um, so it's making it's the same term, but it's gone into quite different directions and that will help give you shape to your writing.      Um, so this my map has done that, um,     with all the concepts and it's sort of extended out and it may lead you into places that you hadn't considered related to your writing.    Um, so these direction markers that connect the concepts, um, and allow for the flow of different ideas.     So again, if you're a, um, a visual type person, this may be a really good way to start your writing drafts.    So these new questions can help with framing and matching your review.    So the next strategy is a matrix or a table.     So this strategy helps determine alignment between research papers against a set of defined criteria, which is what we're talking about just before.    So in this example the researcher or in this case a student is looking at themes and research about PhD students.    So for this matrix and I've selected three articles and applied the content of the article to a specific question or topic area.    So we can see the criteria as laid out in column one. Um, so these are points that this particular student has thought is relevant to their writing.    And then they've married it. Um, so we have in column two, um author humpback, um Muirburn.    And column three. Uh, two and then um, what's his name?    And the final column. And so these are the articles.    And then they've looked at the content that's in these articles and just made a brief note in the table.    Um, so you can also apply this type of, um, notation, I guess, or um,    note making if you are using a reference um management system like ref works or in note.    So you can do the same thing. Um, this is one way to keep it all together and it depends what works for you.    You might like to to search through a citation management, um, program.    Or you may like to just report on a table.    Um, and then from the table, um, there's an example here where they've taken elements from the author and constructed a paragraph.    Um, so in this one they've started by asking a question, does supervision play a role in a PhD student attrition.    And then they've made a statement and then they've supported that with evidence from each of the three authors.    Um, so that's how you'll start, uh, constructing your writing.     Okay, so that's, um, the tool number two. Uh, then we have tool number three again to help you with your writing.    Um, we have what's called sentence skeletons.    Um, so the strategy asks you to remove specific content from a research paper and then look at the sentence structure as framing for your own writing.    So if you found a really good article, um, that suitable for your literature review, you may want to do that with some of the content.    So strip out some of the detail and then think, how would you write that statement or that reflection.    Um, so these are just some examples to start you off.    Um, we have the study builds on and contribute contributes to work and and then you fill in the blank spaces.    Yeah. So that sentence skeleton so that can help you get started.    And this is based on literature that you're reading. Um, and taking that framework.    Um, so it's really at access prompts, I guess. I.    I'm going to keep going. Well, we have a technician here to. Yep, yep.    Cool. Um, and then the final, um, tool to help you with your writing is sentence starters.     Um, so, uh, I've recommended here academic phrase bank.    This is from the University of Manchester. Um, so this is a really great tool to help with writing.    Um, and there's a large range of sentence status within this website.    Um, so on screen you can see examples of prompts.    So just down the bottom, uh, part that highlight inadequacies, um, that you might find in your articles.    So this helps you to think more critically about what it is you're reading and then writing about.    So on the, um, the menu on the left, you can see that there are different prompts.    So if you are looking at to, um, ways to define the terms that you're using.    You can go down to that part in the menu and then it will provide you with a list of prompts.    So these are really great if you don't know how to start your sentences.    Okay. Um, so the activity now is to look at um, you can do this in pairs or in groups.    Um, pick one of these strategies and write start writing um, based on an article that you've chosen.    So aim for  to  sentences that will address the following questions.    So what were the author's main arguments? Um, and what were the key findings of the study?    Um, so we might just start with five minutes on this one.    Uh, so we'll come back at , uh, , and we'll go .    So, yeah, use the article you found. Choose a strategy and then start, um, start your writing.    Um, hopefully you will leave here with a couple of sentences or maybe a paragraph on the article that you've chosen.    Are there any questions? Feel free to talk about.    To grow crops. It's good, wasn't it?    It's always good when I get a guy.    Who came in and it just popped up. What did I do wrong?    Yeah. I haven't covered the rift.    Works on vaccines anyway. Yeah, I thought they would have done that.    I don't know. Yeah, I wasn't of. Yeah.    It's kind of these over. Yeah.     And listen, as always. Want to talk sweeteners.    Appropriate to start using that sort of.  or .    References. Am I supposed to switch to a compliment or something?    I got to do  or . Yeah. You know, stuff  is.    So yeah, I might point them to the website that because it has API talk for the results.    Got just to give them a call. I think for you.    Was crucified under Pontius Pilate. So it's this idea and I see in some other channels they filmed.    And I think it's pretty standard for news scholars on this site.    I mean, it gives you, Frederick informs. Which I think doesn't make sense.     Yes. Why is it like that? Well, because it's working.    Yeah. Well, you can export the citation. Yeah. Yeah.    Copy that. I just do that all the time. If you want to score.    Favourite gaming? I. Someone has to do it that way.    It's a comic relief with one. The. Oh.    Few people respond. To the.     Expectation that this association. At the same.    Time the classical. Is to . Could this someone else?    And at   he is under. Make sure I introduce this one because we don't because I.    They will have to. You can do so I this.     Yeah. There's another class at . Right. Yeah.    By myself. Yeah. We finish it off I don't care. Okay. The other council's looking out.     Period. Basically until they know how they can manage it.    Oh yes. Yes. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. One is fine though. Just to.     Just put one. Studios.     It's not the old must have plan. It is cut and switched on.     You can hear the click, but the signal is not coming. Yeah, yeah.     The transmitter? Definitely. Thank you, madam.     Thank you for coming. So I'm just ready to go again.     Then a couple of times. We can get people in a place like this.     Sounds like. Some of those countries are more likely to go away like others.    Yeah. The walking quarter from now back to the supply places to do that,    surely to just have a little trolley which has a selection of light bulbs here we have that will try this.    Oh no no no sir, that's the same.    How many pumps could you come with? Sure. There's not that many times you can just.    Okay. All right.  minutes.    Okay. Um, everyone, I think we will go back.    Oops. Yeah. Thank you. Um, get back to, uh, the lecture.    Um, we have, uh,  minutes left of the session.    Um, so hopefully you have managed to write a sentence or two.    So, um, as would anyone like to volunteer their writing and share what they have written?    So maybe someone from the front. Yeah.    Go. Uh, I guess I have, like, rough points, but no. Okay.    Yeah, that's a good start. So what points do you have? Uh, so my article was about using gestures to problems like smelling, interaction and the, uh.    Um, and I guess my main points about it were that the sample size wasn't really large enough for it to show significant results,    I guess, and that, well, that hasn't really gone into.    Any tests on the results to make sure they're significant.    I kind of just put a table that. Uh, so that was my life.    I mean, I did notice that would be a nice fit for the strategy, I think.    Um, so, uh, in column one, you could write, uh, the main theme about the, um, the sections.    So one was about the table. So it was about the data.    And what was the first point that you talked about? Uh, the sample size.    Yeah. So that was very small. Yeah. So you could put experiment sample size as one of the first, um, uh, one of the criteria in that left hand column.     And then you could write your bullet point into that box.     So this article would form the first article and then every other article that you look at, you'll, you'll compare.    So you'll be looking for the same type of, um, information.     And then you can add that to the matrix.    So you might find that, um, the next author does have a really clear sample size or does have other elements that you're after.    Um, so this will help you then put together an example sentence or paragraph.    Um, so using that one on screen at the bottom, this will help you build that sentence.    So you've done all of the steps to help start that process.    Um, so that's really great. Thank you for sharing your example.     So I would I would recommend this one, this method as a way for you to sort of move forward.    Um, and as a group, uh, each person could apply that and add, um,    you can start building the table so everyone has an article and you edit and that sort of shares the workload as well.    But it gives you that more, um, it allows you to do that broad coverage.     So yeah. Awesome. Thank you. Great example. Um, okay.    So, uh, that brings us to the end of topic three.    So that was about the right team. Um, and we'll move now into, uh, topic four and looking at the presentation skills.    Um, so this is, this is quite a quick, um, section.    Okay. So let's look at look. Let's go back to the assignment.    Um, requirements for the literature review. Um, so first you'll need to develop a set of slides.    Um, you'll need to follow this up with a set of notes. Then you need to participate in a in class peer review workshop.     And then finally you'll need to develop and submit a video.    So those are the four elements that you'll need to complete for the literature review assignment.    Okay. So um, if we look at the literature review slides, draft one.     So this is the first of the four, um, assignments that you'll need to do.    Um, so the criteria is you'll need to explain the context of your group project topic.    Um, describe the two articles. So this is an individual assignment.    So describe the two articles and comment on how they relate to one another.    Um, so the matrix table that I just talked about would be a really good way to, um, position, uh, that um,    and also summarise insights from the literature and the implications these might have for your project.     So it's a really clear, um, guideline as to what you need to do for this.    Um, I've highlighted within, um, the body of the assignment brief, some key points.    Um, so you need to pick out the most important and relevant information from each article.    You'll be reading a lot of information and not everything will be relevant.    Oh. Oh my gosh.    What if? What is going on?    Okay. All right. So there'll be a blip in the recording for that?     Yeah. Um. Okay. Um, you need to communicate your contents visually.    Um, your presentation, your slide presentation should last five minutes.    So make sure, um, you practice your timings. Okay.    That's really important to do. Um, you need to include at least two images per article.    Um, so choose or create these images carefully in order to show the design.    And for my, um, innovation. So start thinking now, particularly if you've got an article that's relevant.    What image could you associate with that? So we are expecting images to be part of your slides.    Um, and you must include full references within the slides.    Um, the reference style we will be using is APA seven.    Um, this is a really common, um, form of referencing.    And we'll talk a little bit about that again shortly. Um, make sure you convert your slides to PDF format.    Um, because that will be helpful as well. Um, looking at the second assignment.     So, um, for this, you are doing your literature review notes.    We're going to do a short activity on, um, the slides and the notes shortly.    So we'll just go over this briefly. Um, this is the background work that will help you prepare for your presentation.    For your presentation. Um, and there are five key points.    So an introduction, methodology, article summaries, conclusion and references.    Um, so this could be a starting point as well for your slides.    Um, well we. Um, we're also looking at the APA interactive tool on our website.    Um, towards the end. That will help you with your referencing.    Okay. Um, the third element in your literature review assignments as a, as an in-class peer review, uh, peer workshop.    Um, so the lecturers will hand out a peer feedback worksheet in lecture three, so you won't get this in advance.    But do make sure you read through the, uh, the brief for this.    So this will happen in week seven. Okay.    So if you don't come, you won't get a mark for this. It must be in person.    Um, so you're going to be split into groups of three and together in your groups of three,    you will listen to each other's presentations and you'll fill in this, uh, feedback worksheet.    So you must be present in the lecture, um, in order to participate.    And you must listen to two other presentations from, um, the other people in your group.    Uh, you will have worksheets to complete, and then you must hand them in to the tutor in the lecture.    So these are not things you take away. Um, and share later.    It must be done in class. So that's the third element.    Um, and then we have a literature review video.    So in week seven, um, when you present your draft, you'll get feedback from that feedback form that you've all filled in.    Um, and then you'll do a second draft, and from there you'll use it to develop a video.    Um, so it has the same components as that first.    Um, the slide, um, um, literature review slides.     So the first element in this, uh, set of four, um, you will need to submit a video file and the slides.     So to help you get started, um, this is the last exercise, um, for the, um, lecture.     So again, and peers or, and your groups start thinking about your literature review slides and the notes.     So there's synergy between those two elements. So one will inform the other.     Um, with the notes you're asked in the brief to consider an introduction, methodology, article summaries, conclusion and references.     Um and for the slide specifically asked to include two images per article.     Um and they should be visually appealing and relevant images.      Um, so think about now, um,     how many slides you might need and start making some notes about the types of images that you will include with your slides.     Um, so we'll just spend a couple of minutes on this and maybe get some feedback from, uh, those in the class who might like to share.    Any questions on the activity? Yeah.    So at the at the very least, start setting up a file for both of those.    So you might want to create a word document for your notes.    Um, you might want to create a PowerPoint slide presentation or use Canva or whatever um platform you like to use.     Um, title it, label it and start working.    Um, popping some ideas in there. So that'll give you a head start for when you leave the session.    Um, and then you can start working on that after the test.    Um, uh, while you are doing that, I'm going to show you, uh, referencing.    Um, a referencing tool. So, um, there's a referencing tool called l o w l l um, this is provided by another university,    but it has a really good, um, tool called the APA interactive.    If you're not sure about how to do APA referencing, um, this tool will help you understand what you need to do.    For example, if we look at a journal article, it will tell you what elements are needed.    So it helps you, um, sort of remember what you need to note down so that you can do a full and complete reference.    Because we we check the references. So we make sure that they are correct.    And then we go and look and find that information so we can see for ourselves what it looks like.    Um, so each element when you click on it gives you a um, description.    So if you click on the author, it tells you the format that it should be in.    So this is a really good tool. Um, many of the websites that you go to, you can download the citation in APA format.    Sometimes it's correct and sometimes it's not. So it's always good.    Um, if you want to use the download the citation that you check it just to make sure the format is right.    Um, so you don't lose any marks or anything on that. You can also change this photo here.    Um, you can go to two authors and we'll give you a different example.    Um, multiple authors gives you example and then organisations or group.    So Ministry of Education that has a different format.    And then if your article is a print article there's one format.    If it's an internet article is another format. And if it has a Doi, um, it's a different format again.    So this is really helpful. Um, I think you'll find that useful for what you're referencing.    Okay. Remember, you just need two articles for your literature review.    Okay. Okay, um, before we wrap up from the lecture,    are there any questions about the literature review assignment or about any of the content that we've gone through?    Yeah. Uh, so are you with in this, like, specific assignment?    Uh, are you only referencing the two articles you've looked at, or is it, like, all of them, but, like, I focus on the two that you associate.    The two I using for the you. Or is it just a summary of.    It's a summary of the two. Can we? Yeah.    Um, so any. Yeah. Anything that you work on together as a group?    Um, that's separate to what you'll submit for your literature review?    Yes. You get the assembly assignments focussed on those two articles.    You might as well as the presentation focus on those articles.    You might look to another article to say something that might support one of the articles that you have.    Yeah. So in this in the slides you can link to other articles.    So yeah if relevant. Yeah.  .    Yeah yeah through focuses on two of course understanding how both understand the difference between the two.    Yeah. So um so that comment was um, the focus is on the two articles that you've, uh, chosen, evaluated, read,     uh, and, uh, writing about, but you can link to other, um, articles if it's relevant or necessary.    Um, it may not be, but for the purpose of the assignment, it's two articles.    Yeah. Um. Should be honest with us. Like the one about the discussion.    The, um, lack of research questions in Hollywood should focus on my particular aspects of research.    Question. Have any thoughts?    Um, if you do need, uh, let me see if I can find it.    Like, for example, right now on the second chat box from Fishing Education.    Yeah. Minimising the points right for the.    That the first and.    Yes. Yeah. Getting some nods. Yes. You know, I think you might not find out until the research question.    Yeah. In which case you will have to. You want to focus on what the output is about and what it's telling you.    Um, so it's so, you know, the, the focus around the article and how it relates to the recently questions that you have, where it does relate.    Yeah. Yeah. So it's um, yeah, I just say that bullet point as well, where it's the most important and relevant information from the article.    Um, in terms of, of your perspective on it, because this is what you're writing about and it's the framing that you'll give as well.    So, you know, if you were using that mind map, it might take you in different directions.    And as long as you're clear about the, um, the approach that you're taking, um, that will be fine.     Does it help? Yeah. Yeah.    Just right, I guess. Remember. Remember to take those notes as really important as you are right from the start,    from your search strategies right through to where you're searching and what kind of information you're looking at.    So if you start a search and then you refine it, if you're using filters, make sure that you add in that information too.    So you know why how you came across that particular article.    That's because you put the search in, you went to this database and then you filtered by looking at,    um, I don't know, perhaps a particular author, um, or a particular conference.    So make sure you document all of that because that will be useful for the notes part of your assignment.    So all of that document documentation.    So that's the. So yeah, the way you find it essentially is a methodology.    So how you located the papers that you have. So write everything down.    Um, okay. So does anyone want to share, um, what they have done to get started on their assignments?    You don't have to. Have we set up the PowerPoint file?    Yes. I'm not. Yes. Have we set up some sort of document for the notes?    Yes. Awesome. Fabulous. Thank you.    Um, if there's no further questions, then I will hand over.    So, have you got a question? Should we take five minutes?    Oh, so we're going to take five minutes, and then, um, Robert and Pi will answer all of your exam.    Not not some of the test questions that you might have.    Thank you. Um, if you do have questions about the literature review, you can pop it into Piazza as well.    And, um, I'll jump in there and answer that. Yeah.    Okay. Thank you. Um, I will be back next week and we will be talking about Maori design principles.     And tomorrow. Um, we also have a guest speaker coming in.     Um, so I really look forward to talking to you then.
