Kia ora everybody! Welcome to the session on finding information, strategies for finding information for assessments. My name is Shaun Hodges, and I work in Libraries and Learning Services. Before we really get into the workshop, have a little think about this question: Where do you currently start looking for information for your assessments? Do you use Google, Google Scholar, Wikipedia, or are there other sources that you use as well?

So, the purpose of today's workshop is to help you learn effective strategies for finding scholarly information. When you're starting your research, it's important to have a clear search strategy, and this involves three components: what are you looking for, where are you looking for it, and how are you looking for it?

To start with, let's have a look at the "what" component of the search strategy. For this section, you need to identify what kind of information you need. This involves looking at the key ideas and topic words you can use for your searches, thinking about the parameters or context of your search, such as dates, currency, geography, demographics, and also the type of information that you need. For example, do you need journal articles, books, archival sources? Often, assessments will specify this, but you can always ask your lecturer or tutor if you're not sure. Make sure that you read your assessment with these questions in mind.

Here is an example of an essay question: Social media is changing the way people relate to each other. Discuss. Pause the video and think about the key ideas in that question. "Social media" is an important concept, as is "changing," "people," "relate," and "to each other." Hopefully, you identified these same concepts.

When you're using the library catalog or databases to search for information, it's important to note that they don't function like Google. If you put in a whole sentence as your search term, as I have in this instance, often the results are not quite what you want. For example, if you look at the last item, a book called "The Land is Dying," this is really not relevant to what I am trying to find. Accordingly, we need to use keywords to target our search, and this is an essential step in the research process. Searching with these words and phrases will help you find the most relevant information.

What's really important here is to use synonyms. A synonym is a word or phrase that has a similar or the same meaning. For example, if you think about the word "happy," we could also change this for the word "content." Another really useful tool here is to use a table to organize these keywords or synonyms. So, here are some of those important words from our essay question, and we're going to look at synonyms that we could use for each one. For example, for "social media," we could swap this for "Facebook," "social network," or perhaps "Twitter."

If you could please pause the recording now and come up with two or three synonyms for each of those keywords. Here are some of the words I came up with: For "changing," altering, evolving, shaping. For "people," I thought of youth, community, and families. And for "relate," the synonyms I had were interact, communicate, and connect. If you had something different, that's perfectly fine. So, you can use combinations of these synonyms and keywords in your searches.

Today, we'll be primarily searching using the University of Auckland Libraries and Learning Services catalog, and you can see the address for this at the top of the slide. In this example, I've searched using the words "social media" plus "alter" plus "community," and you can see that it's only given me a few results, which is not really that many. There's also some books that don't look that relevant to the search, such as the first one, "Media Essentials: A Brief Introduction."

In comparison, this search for "social media" plus "changing" plus "people" has given me more results. So, you can see that playing around with different words will give you more or fewer results, so do take the time to experiment with those different synonyms. Note that results are both textbooks or print books, which you can find in the library, and if you see this little "connect" icon, that means it's an online book or an eBook. To find out more information about the resource, you can click on the title. If it's a print book, you'll need to make a note of the call number, and you'll also need your student ID if you wish to check it out. If it's an online book, you can follow the link to view the text online. Note down the bottom, there is some useful content, which will give you a good overview of the text before you decide to check it out or read it online.

In the previous examples, we've only been looking at books, but you can change your search to "articles and more" for different results. You'll see here that the search term "social media" plus "youth" plus "connect" has given me over 4,000 results, so there are a lot more articles than there are books, and it looks like some of these are pretty relevant as well. Note that the catalog tells you if the article is peer-reviewed, and you can also follow the link to view the text online. You'll see here that there are about four different links we could follow to get a copy of the article.

Another really useful feature of the catalog is this "related reading," and picking up on your key terms, it's recommending a few different articles that might be of use for you. Let's now move on to the "how" of the search strategy. Here are some tips and tricks to help you with your searching. Filters are really useful. These will help you refine your results by publication date, source, and the subject. You can also filter for peer-reviewed articles, which is often a requirement in assessments. A peer-reviewed article is one that has been reviewed by experts in the field. In the catalog, the filters are located on the left-hand side. You'll see here you can click on "peer-reviewed journals," and that will limit your search to those articles only. You can also refine by format and date, as well as other filters.

Symbols are another useful searching tool. Using an asterisk, you can find different endings for your keywords. For example, using "alter" asterisk will also locate articles or books with the words "altering" and "alterations." Using quotation marks is also useful to search for keywords as a unique phrase, for example, "social media." If you remember our table of keywords from before, we could change this to use some of these symbols, such as "alter" asterisk, and this would generate a wider range of results.

Let's look now at some of the advanced search features available to you through the catalog. This will help you structure your searches in a more advanced way. So, in the catalog, the advanced search is located on the right-hand side of the search box. Once you click that, you have options from the drop-down menu, including "and," "or," and "not." "And" will search for all keywords together. For example, you could search for "Twitter" and "You." "Or" searches for any keyword, for example, "Twitter" or "Facebook." And lastly, "not" will exclude keywords from your search. Perhaps you want to search for "social media" but not "Facebook."

One more tip for finding more resources: When you click on an item, have a look at the subject headings. These are located under the content. Clicking on these will point you in the direction of more useful resources. I will now move on to the "where" part of your search strategy. As we've covered today, the library catalog is an excellent place to start your search. Remember that you can filter by "books" and also "articles and more," which will give you different outputs. Databases are also an excellent resource available to you. A database is a searchable collection of descriptions of journal articles and other kinds of information. They are good places to look for reliable sources of scholarly information. The University of Auckland has access to hundreds of databases. You must log in with your username and password to access them.

Google Scholar is a good example of a multi-disciplinary database. You can also go to your subject guides for databases that are specific to your discipline, as well as other useful sources of information. Subject guides are located within the library website. Simply go to the study tab, and you will find them under the "Information Skills" menu. Here is an example for science, specifically forensic science, and you can see that it provides five key databases for this area, as well as other resources. To access the databases, you will need to log in, and then you can hit the "direct connect" button on the right-hand side.

You can also go to "databases" on the library website and look for discipline-specific databases. On the library menu, on the top left corner, you will see there is an option for "databases." This will take you into the database menu, where you can filter by faculty or subject. This is an example of a database called EBSCO, and it works in largely the same way as the library catalog does. You'll see at the top, you have your search bar, and here we've got the advanced search, so we've got "social media" and "relationship." The filters are again on the left-hand side, so you can filter by peer-reviewed journals or publication date, and then the articles are listed in the middle. To access an article, just hit the "PDF full text," or if that's not available within the database, there is an option to "find full text."

So, to summarize what we've covered today: When you're researching, you need to have a clear search strategy. This involves three components: what are you searching for? Thinking about those keywords and synonyms, using an ideas table to record these, what are the parameters of your search, and what type of information do you need? Where are you looking for information? We talked about the library catalog, those subject guides, and also databases. And lastly, how are you searching for information? Remember those little tips and tricks like using symbols, filters, and the advanced search function to target your results even further. Lastly, when you're looking at sources, you need to consider, are they good enough to use? For your reference, we've provided you with this diagram that you can use when analyzing and evaluating resources.
