Okay, cool. Uh, yeah. So today we are going to take a look at the research and resources.  Um, yesterday, Mark and Peter went through the different stages of business case and reviewed the business case in stages.  So today we are going to look at the research and resources to see, okay, for example,  how research can help us with different stages of the business case and what  resources are available to help us with coming up with some evidence based,  um, arguments. Okay. Um, so learning outcomes.  Um, so we are going to look at, uh, systems research.  And how is it different from the scholarly research that you're doing in your part for projects?  Um, describing the system research, uh, steps and uh, principles and then identifying the different sources of information and also applying the,  this, uh, research principles that we learned in your team projects, which is coming next week, and also the systems project, which is in week nine.  Um, yeah. So I'm going to first take a look at the systems research.  Um, and what is it? How does it help us and how is it compared with, uh, scholarly research?  Then, uh, we are going to take a quick look at the significance of the systems research.  Um, when you're developing ideas, when looking at the various aspects of the wicked problem,  and then some tools that can help us to visualise and, you know,  organise your thoughts about, um, a topic and then the key resources that are available,  especially the government reports that you probably haven't, um, had any experience with so far.  And also some examples. Okay. Uh, all right.  So yeah. So in engine four three, the scope of the business cases are just business to government projects.  So this actually entails some, uh,  megaprojects or big projects that that you are actually providing some recommendation in order to tackle a wicked problem at a government level.  And so these big cat problems, you have actually learned it from previous lectures that are, uh, there are different, um, sort of elements inside it.  And then they are quite interconnected. They lack clear boundaries.  And, uh, it's actually quite difficult and very complex to, um, uh,  define it like you have to come up with some, like at least several problem statements.  And also, uh, they don't have to seem like a very, um, easy solution to you.  So it looks like, uh, at an intertwined, um, thread that you can see over in this picture.  And then when you try to, uh, entangle, uh, one of the threads of the problem, other, uh, um, other problems, uh, or new problems keep popping up.  And so therefore it's very hard to define and also define a lot hard to solve.  So how does research can actually help us uncover these, uh,  interconnected elements to be able to better analyse the problem from various perspectives,  such as, for example, social, economic and, and, um, you know, cultural and, and environmental aspects.  Um, so this is where, uh, the system, uh, the systems research and research come into play.  So it's a systematic approach to collect the data, to analyse the information in order to, to serve, um, uh,  some purposes, such as, for example, uncovering the interconnection, interconnected aspects of the wicked problem, uh,  also looking at the stakeholders and also understanding and identifying the stakeholders  and what are their requirements and if there is any conflicting requirements,  how we can actually going to manage and um, uh, engage with our stakeholders, because this is a very important part of a project.  And also when it comes to the, uh, finding a solution or recommendation for the,  for the problem, um, what are the, um, uh, existing or potential solutions?  We can actually explore them through research and then ultimately, um, we can actually come up with some, uh,  looking at the cost and benefits of the, uh, the solutions and then finally make a decision about our preferred way forward.  Um, so we want to actually, um, do this, um, in order to ultimately arrive at an informed recommendation.  Um, so we need to actually gather the evidence for our arguments for our analysis.  And so this is how we can actually help. And so this is research can help us.  This is how research can help us. Um, yeah.  So. Like I said, it's better on. So research helps with a better understanding of the wicked problem.  It can actually provide some background and some context for the problem.  So you can look at it from different angles.  And through research and finding information from various resources, you can actually gain some insight into some underlying causes.  It's very difficult to find all of the underlying causes of a wicked problem.  And then when you do this, um, team project speak and also system project,  you actually understand that it's very complex, complex, and you need to spend more time on it.  But you can actually through research, you can come up with some of the underlying causes of the wicked problem.  Um, it actually promotes systems thinking.  So by system thinking they mean that if you change one variable within the system, how does the, um, the system behaves and reacts to that change?  So any sort of intervention that you actually propose to, um,  to actually tackle the wicked problem might actually affect other aspects because of this,  these interdependence and interconnectivity of the elements.  And it actually helps us to map out the system, to take a look at all the various variables and the components of the system.  Um, and, um, it actually helps us to identify the stakeholders.  So this is very important parts, like I said, because with your team project and your system project,  you don't have have a chance to meet with different or various stakeholders to talk to them,  to understand their viewpoints and also their requirements.  So through research, you can actually gain some understanding of the requirements of the stakeholders in order to  better or develop your engagement strategies and better manage their conflicting requirements.  Um, and also, during developing the recommendations, you can actually look at various perspectives, um, and explore alternative approaches.  And also what are their impacts. And then when you want to, you know, find out whether it's a traditional financial CBA or the social CBA,  you want to actually, um, uh, support your analysis by some, uh, supporting materials from the research.  So this is how the, um, uh, research can actually help us with the CBA in terms of, uh,  estimating the cost and then also finding out the potential benefits that you can actually, um, create with your, um, solution.  Um, so, yeah. So this is just a, um, comparison between the scholarly research and the systems research.  You are already familiar with the scholarly research.  That's what you're doing as part of your final year, uh, research project.  So you're probably going to have you have already developed a hypothesis,  and you are going to test that hypothesis, um, in your research, um, by going to the lab,  doing some lab work or maybe some modelling, and then some of the scholarly research is actually hypothesis oriented,  whereas the systems research is forecast oriented.  So you're, um, not looking at the past information, but you are actually want to understand what is the effect or what is the,  um, the trend, um, over the next coming, like let's say ten,  years.  So you need to actually understand what are the trends and also what is the forecast of projections over a period of time,  um, which is actually into the future.  Um, and then uh, there are some other differences, such as, for example, the methods, the resources that you need.  So for the, um, scholarly research, you usually, often, uh, tend to actually look at the published literature,  which actually, um, looked at the past studies or something like, uh, um, past research.  Whereas for the systems research, you looked at both the published researcher from the past,  um, uh, research and also some of the projections, um, and also future trends.  And also you can see there are some other differences in terms of the audience, in terms of how you, um, use your,  um, research outcomes and how your, um, how you can actually use it, for example, for the business case and so on.  Um, yeah. So some tools that might be very useful, especially when you get started with looking at the project at the, uh, the problem, uh, spaces.  Uh, and also for your team projects.  So the first tool that we are going to take a look today is just this, uh, cluster maps or it also called, uh, brain dump map.  Um, so this is a very useful collaborative tool that you can actually try with your team-mates in your team when you go through the the project brief.  But it's a team project brief for the system brief. Um, you actually often introduced to the project, uh, background or the problem background.  And so you can actually start, uh, by collaborating with your team-mates by, um,  probably just using a big piece of paper and different markers with like, two different colours and start to, uh, generate ideas.  And also from your research, you can actually, uh, find out some information and then, um, add them to their paper.  So you can actually just use, uh, uh, the centre of the paper and just write down your topic.  And then everybody within the team can actually just, uh,  contribute to the thinking and ideas by actually adding some more, uh, concepts or some relevant materials to the topic.  And then once you actually come up with these, um, sort of, uh, uh, scribble on your paper,  you can actually try to connect them by drawing, um, uh, uh, connection between them to develop a complex view of the system.  So the, the purpose is to mine all the components that make up the system.  And then the key part is to draw the connection between them to develop a complex view of the system.  So when you actually going to when you are going to write about the problem background,  this picture can actually help you tell the story by looking at various angles and also various,  um, elements that are actually contributing to the problem, to the wicked problem.  Um, keep in mind that these relationships are messy and this is a natural part of a wicked problem.  Um, so don't be afraid that if you find out it's very complex, it's very hard to explain, because that's part of the nature of the wicked problem.  Okay. Um. And then from here you can actually come up with some key areas or key components of the system that you want to go further,  and then maybe develop your solution based on. So this is important to highlight those, um, key aspects of the or key components of the system.  The other one is the interconnected circle maps that you can see a picture over here and here.  So this is also, um, actually it's from a refined area that you identified through a cluster map.  And it actually allows, uh, deep exploration of the relationships.  So you can actually just take some of those, um, uh, key components and then just move them around.  So maybe you can just, um, cut, cut the paper and then, uh,  move around a circle and then try to also, um, uh, draw the connection between these elements.  So like nodes and then connections. And um,  therefore you can actually find out more about the non-linearity and the cause and effect relationship  and also how changing or intervening your intervention might affect different aspects of the,  the the system. Um, you also can use, um, mind mapping tools.  It's also a great way of visualisation of your ideas, um, around the, the different aspects of the problem and also different,  um, um, different elements and the interconnection between the, the elements of the system.  So here you can see just a using a mind map in the agricultural system.  There are also other examples that you can take a look.  Um, it actually helps us seeing the, the elements in a relational way, um, which uh, rather than a linear way.  So sometimes if people use a really linear cause and effect relationship, they might actually miss some of the aspects.  So it's actually help us to see in a relational way. Um, it's a very good way to visualise the, uh, your concepts and your ideas.  Um, there's also another method called Rich picture.  This was actually, um, it's a cartoon, like, um, um, explanation of a situation.  For example, here you can see, um, um, about the the effect of the, um.  So the rich picture is actually a combination of text.  Um, you know, icons, pictures and symbols.  And it actually helps you to better understand the situation.  So it actually creates a shared understanding of a situation, and then you want to explain it visually.  So this is also a very good tool to take a look at different components of the system,  the interconnection and interdependence of different components of a system.  And so this is also a very good tool. Um, you've heard about the causal loops from uh, Peter's lectures, I think.  So this is also a way to understand, uh, that, uh, actually the, the variables within a complex system.  And what are the, uh, cause and effect relationship within, uh, variables within the system.  So this is also another design thinking tools.  And these design thinking tools are really, um, useful when you want to generate and structure your thoughts.  And then, uh, yeah, a stakeholder mapping, which you are familiar with.  So just the power interest matrix and how you can actually identify and map the stakeholders on the power interest matrix.  Uh, so you can also classify them into the primary and secondary stakeholders as well.  So remember that these design thinking tools are useful in conceptualising and also visualising your research.  Um, so now we are going to take a look at some of the sources of information, which is actually quite helpful for your business case for your project.  Um, so we are looking at this, these resources, government reports, statistics and also the annual reports from the industry.  Uh, there's also some you can find some, um, relevant materials from the news on articles.  And I actually have listed them as a, as additional resource on canvas.  So you can actually take a look at the, uh, canvas page for this lecture to find out,  for example, a list of the, um, like business magazines in New Zealand as well.  Um, so then when it comes to the team project or the system project,  you are going to have this section of, uh, uh, dedicated to the supporting materials.  So some resources will be provided to help your team get started with the project.  It's a good starting point for, um, uh, reading through some background of the project.  Um, and also the issues, um, several issues around the problem.  Uh, and also maybe some, um, how other countries reacted to such a problem.  Um, and also, what are the potential solutions that might actually, uh, come to your mind, actually.  Um, so this is actually provided mainly due to the time constraints, because you don't have a, uh, a lot of time to spend on this project.  And if you have a time limit. So you are going to have some supporting materials.  It's a good starting point to start with your project.  And then, um, but in real world projects you must find most of the data yourself.  Um, and you need to be able to analyse the information yourself.  So my recommendation to you is don't limit yourselves to just the supporting materials and explore the various resources that are out.  Some of them I have actually show you in this lecture.  Um, so some of the uh, resources that are publicly available are from, uh, Statistics New Zealand.  So you'll probably have this, uh, before you probably have referred to the Statistics New Zealand before for obtaining some,  uh, data from, for example, for other courses.  Uh, so Statistics New Zealand provides some uh, uh, statistics data for which is actually publicly available and you can actually use.  Um, and then there are government reports, um, such as for example, those publications from Treasury in New Zealand.  Um, so if you click here, you can actually go to this um, publication page and actually take a look at some of the resources available.  You can also find various sources of information from the government reports.  For example, if you're just wondering about the stakeholders,  how the government is engaging with different stakeholders, you can also refer to the government reports.  Some of the government reports are from different, uh, ministries or agencies that, uh,  for example, Ministry for environment or um, other ministries like the Health Ministry for health.  Um, and so you can actually, uh, find out a lot of information from these reports, um,  such as the discussions such as the trends, um, any, um, any data regarding the transition to a new system and so on.  Um, so I recommend this one as well. And then we have the government portals and then annual reports from the industry.  So um, here is one example.  So um, there is a wellbeing indicator portal under the Statistics New Zealand that you can actually refer to by clicking here.  So it actually provides uh like behind the statistics New Zealand looked at the wellbeing and then um  actually measured and uh track the progress of the wellbeing uh aspects from  different indicators.  Um, so these measures cover New Zealand's current wellbeing and also the future  wellbeing and also the impact that New Zealand is having on the rest of the world.  Um, so let's say if you go to this current wellbeing, you can see that it has a different, uh, sort of classifications.  So let's say you have one to find out. For example, what is the let's say you're, you're thinking about the cost of living crisis.  And then you want to find out some information about the cost of living crisis.  So you go to the economic a standard of living. And then let's say I choose the low income.  So you can have this bar graph showing how the people living in low income households change over time.  So you can see that maybe over the few past few years it has dropped, um, slightly.  But then since the, uh, , , it increases a bit.  Um, so that might actually increase. Um, just give you some information and insight.  So for example here you can say that maybe, um, this, um, reduction in the people,  low income people and or percentage of the low income people might attribute to, uh, better employment or, um, better economic growth of the country.  And then eventually due to the inflation, due to some sort of other factors, that the number of low income people starts to build up,  maybe some employment, recent unemployment rates, and that is that, um, has risen.  Um, so yeah. So you can actually gain a lot of information from the Statistics New Zealand Wellbeing indicators.  This is a, um, this is something that I recommend you going through and explore yourself.  Um, if you're looking for other, uh, sort of, uh, reports from the government.  So. Wellbeing reports. This is actually published by the Treasury every four years.  And so they have different, uh, actually shows you how the wellbeing of the country has actually progressed over the past four years.  Um, so you can, um, uh, go through this report, understand some of the indicators how this New Zealand doing.  How's the wellbeing of the nation? Uh, has actually, uh, evolved over the past few years.  And there are also some other background papers that is that are listed here.  So this is also a good source of information when you want to look at the wellbeing aspect.  So this is actually when you're looking at the non-economic factors and maybe how  your potential solution might actually contribute to those non-economic factors.  So you can actually use this as a resource. Use this uh, wellbeing report as a resource to, um, see how your options aligns with,  uh, those indicators and those, um, um, wellbeing measures that are in place.  Um, so Treasury has also some other publications, financial statements,  which I actually, uh, published, uh, to the public every month and also annually.  Um, so it actually gives you some, uh, high level and also, um, uh, like holistic information about how our economy is doing.  What is the total revenue of the government? What is the total expenses?  Um, and also some assets and, um, the level of assets and liabilities of the government.  So it gives you a lot of, uh, financial information.  And also we have this long term fiscal position, which is actually like a projection into the next  years in New Zealand.  So you can actually understand, for example, if you make it this, this is actually a very good, um, resource for the decision makers,  because they can actually understand if they change a policy or if they, um,  make an intervention into one of these problems that they are actually facing.  Um, how does it affect the long term position of the, the financial position of the country, um, the next  years and so on?  Um, there are also the government portals, um, which actually provides background on the current system.  So if you want to learn about the current situation of, um, like one area or one topic,  let's say health, you can actually go to through the, for example,  the Health New Zealand um, portal and understand what is how the current system works and also,  um, how the, how the transforming of the health system work.  And there are also a publication sector that you can actually have a look at to understand more about the,  um, the transformation and also what it means.  There are also, um, some other government resources.  If you are just wondering about how you are going to, uh, estimate the cost for, um, for any option,  there's uh, CVA tool which has been, um, presented to you in the previous lectures by Mark.  So you can actually use this a spreadsheet model. There are also NZ costing tools.  Um, uh, which you can actually refer to these tools that are available for you to, to explore.  Um eight uh Auckland transport costing estimation.  So these are some of the um tools that are actually available for infrastructure projects and so on.  So you can actually look at them.  And then maybe for the, um, for the health sector, this uh, Health New Zealand cost estimation guidelines is also very important and very useful.  You can just refer to the appendix of this, um, um, reports to understand how they actually estimate the cost for the health sector.  Um, so as recommended, uh, previously by Mark in the previous lectures, always use a bottom up approach because you can actually break down the,  the big project into the smaller component and the smaller parts, and then estimate the cost from the,  uh, for, for each component in order to be able to estimate the cost for the whole project.  Okay. So it's it's a good idea and I recommend it to use a bottom up approach.  Um, another thing is that the annual reports from the industry.  So this is also publicly available. So you can just Google, for example, if you're just wondering about, let's say uh, dairy industry, for example,  you can just Google and then you can find uh, some information for one of the big players in the dairy industry, like the Fonterra.  Uh, since they are publicly listed, they have to, um, make all of the financial performance and all of the, uh, results available to the public.  Um, so you can actually go to the different sections of this, and this is annual leave, so you can just track,  um, how the industry performs over the years and also some, maybe some projections as well.  Uh, so here you can also get a lot of information, for example, if you're just wondering about,  um, the cost of food and how it's affected throughout the years.  You can take a look at the the reports from the suppliers, like the, the manufacturing after food and see,  for example, let's say in this case, I found out the cost of collecting milk has increased over the years.  So that might actually contribute to the cost, um, increased cost of uh, food, let's say in this case milk.  Um, and then you can also see some commentary like for example, uh,  what actually drives this, um, increase in the food price, for example, high inflammation,  high inflation and also significant weather events have been mentioned as the some underlying causes for increased, um, price of the food.  Um, and so this is very good and gives you some information.  Um, but keep in mind that some of these um, companies are not publicly listed.  And so if you want to gain a big picture of the whole industry, you can actually just look at the annual reports.  You need some other comprehensive resources that actually looked at different various, um,  aspects of the, um, industry and then, um, give you a more comprehensive and holistic picture.  And that is through the, um, subscription based databases that are available through library.  Um, so here are some of those, um, uh, resources and databases.  Um, um, you can also use this, um, this resource to explore how you can actually refine your research,  how you can actually, um, use this, uh, database searching more effectively in order to get a better results.  Um, and also there are also some, uh,  library tutorial videos that are linked to the canvas page that you can actually take a look and understand from there in order to,  um, so there are more explanation about each of these databases and why they are useful.  Yeah. So if you go to the to the library website, you can go to the databases section.  And here you can have uh, browse databases by title, by category and also by subject.  It's actually quite good that we have um, dedicated databases for engineering.  So if if you're just wondering about this, um, whether your field of study or your, um, your research in any of the other courses,  you can actually refer to these databases and gain some information from this research.  Um, so the other and so here is just an example of using the library databases.  So um, if you remember I just mentioned about the dairy industries.  So here I went to this database. I just work and just search for the, um, dairy farming or dairy industries in New Zealand.  And this is a report that I can actually find out cheese, butter and milk powder manufacturing in New Zealand.  And I also can download that as a PDF file.  Um, so it can give you a lot of information which can actually helps us, um,  build a big picture because we are not just looking at one company or one industry in the, um, dairy industries in New Zealand.  But we're looking at the whole picture.  Um, and so we can find out a lot of information such as the total revenue, the number of employees, you know, uh,  and also some other information, like, for example, key external drivers into the, uh, growth of this industry, the major players and so on.  And this piece of information is actually quite useful.  So it actually shows us, for example, the areas in the country that this, uh, dairy industry business is concentrated in.  So let's say, uh, you are a decision maker and you want to develop some strategies for climate change mitigation.  So let's say you want to reduce the emissions. And so you understand that different areas has different requirements.  So um you can see that from this picture that white cattle is has has the highest  concentration of the dairy and dairy industries followed by Auckland and then Canterbury.  So when you want to develop some strategies, do you understand that these regions have different requirements.  So they uh so you can say that once you can propose a solution that fits for all of the regions.  So you need to actually develop some strategies to focus more on the regional rather than the country.  So you need to actually think about these uh, factors as well.  And this is how you can actually analyse the the problem more effectively by looking at those insights from the,  um, reports that are available through the database.  Yeah. The other one is this market data, uh market lion.  So it actually provides a market data. So what I did, I went to these uh, sections, um,  so sector reports and then consumer goods and then find out these three, um, uh, reports dairy in New Zealand.  So you can see that is also published quite recently.  And this is one of the key points and key strengths of these, um, databases that they have um,  this sort of analysis and very updated and up to date analysis for and different facts.  Um, again, you can actually find out some other information, like for example, the market share of the uh,  dairy industry in New Zealand and also how it actually performs over the years.  There might be some also some projections as well.  So it it gives us a lot of information and insights which can be helpful for building our arguments for, um, when it comes to developing solutions.  And so. Yeah.  And then, um, so once you you've done your research, you might come up with a lot of information.  I'll find like qualitative data and information.  And then you need to actually piece them together to build up a big picture by analysing the information from several resources.  It's really important. And not just looking at one sources of information, but looking at several sources of information.  And um, you might want to take a look at this situation from various angles in terms of presentation into your report,  your, uh, team project report assistant, project report.  Uh, please remember this, that these projects give you an opportunity to demonstrate your critical thinking and also problem solving skills.  So by just presenting the the data without any interpretation and without any analysis,  you don't actually show your critical thinking and analysis and problem solving skills.  It's really important to spend time to analyse and look at, um, various looks at the problem and also the solution from various angles,  and then, um, try to analyse it in a way that is more sensible and also supported by the information from reliable resources.  Um, and then another way to communicate your findings in a more digestible format is using visualisations.  So if you could go back and take a look at some of those, um, um, exemplars from previous years, you can see that, um,  people actually used, um, charts, graphs and diagrams in order to summarise their findings and also, um, that use it.  I like using infographics in order to better communicate complex data, because it actually, um,  makes more sense to come up with this sort of visualisation to also, um, uh, talk about these different factors rather than just numbers.  So you can I, I actually, uh, encourage you to use these sort of visualisations in your reports to make it more streamlined and also easier to,  um, comment cases is a better way to communicate your, uh, findings and also build your discussions.  Um, you can also use these, um, infographics to illustrate the implementation plan.  So once you come up with your recommendation, the next stage is to come up with the implementation plan.  And also here you can see an example of how people, uh, how, um, the timeline has been provided.  And then key stages of the implementation has been provided as well.  So it's a better way. Um, to just summarise, uh, the implementation as well.  Um, and then it's a better communication way.  Um, and then just one last thing for the referencing.  So if you're using other people's writing ideas, you, um, you need to actually cite them properly.  Um, it's actually easy to cite books or journal articles or let's say, government reports in your, um, final report,  but it's actually quite hard if you find a, um, let's say, a post on social media from a news agency or, um, uh, government that, uh, ministry.  So how do you, uh, how do you cite that?  What is the template for citing that?  And so if you go to this QuickSight tool, you can actually find out what is the reference type that you want to use, for example, social media.  And then you have the format here. And then there's examples.  So you can actually use this in order to uh format your references as well.  So that's a very um, useful tool that you can actually use for your referencing part of your report.  And just before we go, just some take home messages.  Uh, so explore the key resources such as the statistics, um, government data,  industry reports and also those databases that are available on the through the  library website because they provide comprehensive and also valid information.  And remember to also communicate your analysis effectively by using tables and visualisations and infographics.  Um, is there any questions? Okay, so I just want to show you one thing before we go.  Um, so if you go down here, you there's a quiz that you can actually try after the lecture.  And then there are also some additional resources that you can actually use.  Um, for example, there's um government reports for Ministry for Environment and Ministry of Health and so on.  So please spend some time to go through these, uh, additional resources and those,  um, those, uh, recordings from the university library also listed here.  So you can also go through and understand about those databases as well.  And then the last announcement is just that, um, quiz two is coming this Thursday.  Um, so the lecture nine to lecture  will be, um, um, in the quiz two.  Okay. Thanks so much. And have a good day. Thank you.
