Quick learning outcomes, discuss the most important aspects of the business case and the context of government projects and mega projects.  Major projects might hear this term thrown around projects over, uh, certain threshold monetary value.  Describe the logical flow between the different stages of the business case.  So we've touched a couple of times on the bit of business case framework.  So we'll be going through that in more detail today. Um, be able to write a business case linking those problem spaces to that solution space.  Oh so the implementation plan again, we already mapped those three spaces to what they look like in the better business case.  When we looked at the traditional KBA carry out initial options assessments against the critical success factors, um, as well as that DB framework.  Again, we'll look at that. Uh, really important for the team project coming up.  It's a quick outline, um, business case of the systems level, business case methodology.  And we'll go through, um, some structure using some, uh, cases such as Golden Mile,  which is a case, uh, in Wellington as well as Auckland light rail, which we've already looked at.  And the uh cost benefit analysis. So last week you had the guest speaker time, Professor Juliet Gerrard.  Hopefully a lot of great, um, takeaways from that lecture today, looking at business case analysis,  then jumping with Risa into resource research and resources, and then back to Amanda to introduce that team project.  Uh, quiz two opens Thursday. That's coming up. Make sure to review for that.  So business cases. Business cases make a justification for undertaking a project.  Projects that are very large, projects that are very risky.  They evaluate the benefits and the costs and the risks of the options,  and presents the rationale for the best way forward or the preferred way forward.  Um, its purpose is to, um, get approval and investment from the decision makers that need to fund it.  They can download O-levels.  So at three and  or  you did a BC or BB innovation now and  or  looking at the business to government level or the systems level.  You look at simple problems, simple way, simple problems for business to business, business consumer.  But and for a three we look at what could problem.  So problems that have stakeholders that have conflicting requirements.  How do you manage those requirements. How do you balance those requirements to select the best way forward?  So just to talk a little bit about the difference between the indicative business case,  the program business case, the detailed business case, and then the final full implementation case.  As you know, the better business case has the five cases.  You start off with the program or the indicative business case which is largely based around the strategic case.  What is the argument for change? Why do you need to solve this problem?  How big is the problem? Who are you solving that problem for?  And then as you move forward, you start to talk about the other cases the economic, the commercial, the financial.  And then once you had the full implementation business case, you're able to have a full case for each one of those five cases.  The reason for this layout is so there are off ramps.  You're not committing to a full business case, which can cost, you know, tens of millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars in some cases.  It gives you an opportunity to assess the opportunity for these cases.  And then if they're deemed or if they're deemed that you don't want to carry them forward,  then you have an opportunity to scan it there so you don't have to go straight to the full case, the full implementation, which does cost a lot.  You have opportunities to have checkpoints where you can either go or no go.  So avoids the over commitment and reduces the losses of the project does not move forward.  So today we'll look at a couple cases. Oakland light rail.  That's an indicative business case. What we've been looking at.  And the Golden Mile, which is an infrastructure project based within the Let's Get Wellington Moving program,  which was recently dissolved, as we'll talk about in a second.  Uh, but the Golden Mile is, uh, Golden Mile is a stretch along Taranaki Street and Wellington.  If you've ever been to Wellington Main Street there, it's about removing or adding bus lines,  removing or adding car parks where appropriate and changing the layout of the footpaths.  I was actually involved in my old company reveal. I worked on the pre works for this case, uh, carrying out utility surveying.  So basically you map all of the utilities under the ground.  You need to know where the utilities are so people don't hit them when they go to do the construction.  So we actually spent uh, three weeks working nights in the middle of Wellington,  six,  p.m. to  a.m., mapping all of these utilities in the middle of the night.  Very cold winter. Um, it was a great experience. Um, so yeah, cool to be able to bring this back and share this with you.  So first up, we've mentioned the Treasury a lot.  I just want to give you a little background about what the Treasury is. So the Treasury is the government's lead economic and financial advisor.  They provide strategic policy advice on the New Zealand economy.  Uh, they also look after the government's books. They're in charge of, um, rolling out the budget.  All of these things around fiscal strategy, economic analysis, as you've seen, they develop the better business case model,  pulled that from Britain and have obviously, they lead the policy advice to any of those, um, sort of larger cases.  They're one of five central agencies. So central agencies are agencies within the government that provide advice across all sectors.  So they're not just, you know, Ministry for Primary Industries or Ministry of Transport.  They provide, uh, advice across all the industries.  Hence the reason that I call the central agencies alongside the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet,  the Public Service Committee, the Ministry for regulation and the Social Investment Agency.  Their key business objectives being fiscal, monetary and regulatory frameworks that result in stable, sustainable economic development.  They handle the Crown's books, the finances, the budgets, the balance sheets, income statements.  And they provide the regulatory frameworks to, um, support the state sector.  Mainly, they're in charge of providing or facilitating the the improvement of inter-generational wellbeing for all New Zealanders.  Okay. So important Treasury. They put it out of a lot of of us.  We follow that advice here as well.  They're the ones that put out this bit of business case framework, which is a requirement of projects over $ million.  So as we look at here, we've got the five cases.  We've been over this before the strategic, the economic, strategic.  Looking at the, uh, the case for change, the economic.  Looking at the economic value of the options and the social value of the options,  the commercial looking at who the vendors will be, what are those strategic partnerships look like?  How does the public perceive this? Good.  Then the financial, the fine details of how the preferred way forward will be rolled out and then the management case.  How will this be managed? How will this be rolled out in practice?  So, as we already know, focusing more heavily on those four cases for systems week, for your team projects,  just looking at the strategic and the economic case, only your final output being your shortlist that you'll carry forward.  If you were to continue on into, say, a more detailed business case, you would then analyse the options, other shortlist options.  But for the same project, just looking at strategic economic case, getting to a shortlist and then and Systems Week,  you'll carry on through the preferred way forward and a little bit of that management case that project management.  How will it look as you roll it out. So just to walk through the methodology went through the outline.  So your strategic case looks at the project background problem spaces.  We'll cover these in a bit more detail in a second. Stakeholder analysis requirements and key success factors.  Any of those assumptions and constraints that are important. The economic case that long list.  So you carry out your initial brainstorm.  Then you carry out that into a long list where you'll do some analysis of those options, mainly through the data analysis framework,  as well as analysing against your critical success or your key success factors and your problem statements to output that shortlist.  Then you carry out that social cost benefit analysis on those short listed options to get you to your preferred way forward.  And then from the preferred way forward into the management case.  What's that high level timeline. What's that roll look like?  And how are you going to measure the success of that preferred way forward.  And then you're always in a business case with a set of recommendations.  How should the government or the client move forward from here based on the advice that you've given them in this business case?  So the methodology follows this. Kind of timeline.  Define and analyse the problem. So you'll look at the problem spaces.  You identify problem statements and then you'll brainstorm options based on those problem statements.  Identify those user stakeholders and those requirements from those requirements.  Build your key success factors that you'll compare your long list options to,  and then assist those against the DFB and the critical success factors to determine that short list.  Carry out that economic analysis, and then determine which has the most value, both economic and social,  and the best way to move forward with that, then into planning and defining how to implement that solution.  So I'm just going to introduce these, um, cases before I hand it over to Peter.  But I've got the Golden Mile. So looking at the project background, this is what the Golden Mile case had.  So the Golden Mile project forms a part of the alguien, the Let's Get Wellington moving program.  So remember we talked about program cases versus um, business cases.  So remember the city rail link that exists within the Auckland Rails Links program similar to this.  Um. The geographical scope for the let's Go to moving program covers the areas from no longer a gorge to the Wellington International Airport.  So when we did our pre works on the programme, we did pretty works all the way from the basin outpost,  the hospital out through the Mount Vic tunnel and then out to the airport.  So it covered a huge range. But the Golden Mile project actually only covers the central part of that project.  So the Golden Miles and from Taranaki straight all the way down to Lambton Quay and then the background for Auckland light rail.  Um, you already know that. So I'll just go over real quick that a solution for the CC  a.m. corridor that has gone through many iterations.  Basically just trying to improve congestion in the city by providing a transport solution from the city to the airport.  We already talked through that. Cool. I'll pass that over to Peter.  Let's carry on from problem analysis. Cheers.  Right. So, uh, we want to just kind of, uh, recontextualize this, make sure that everyone's clear,  uh, where we go next in terms of what we call the team project.  And so, Mark been walking you through the steps, and we're going to, uh,  go into a bit more detail in terms of how you actually go from the problem that will be putting out to you,  which, again, is a wicked problem or really what you consider a set of wicked problems.  Okay, we're a set of problems that grow out of a wicked, uh, situation.  And so if you think back, those of you who had  or  or if you're a contract student that had something similar in another part of the university.  Uh, when we go through this process, it is similar to this double diamonds process that we did in  or , where we first looked at the problem.  And then once we had defined the problem and, uh, I might just jump back here.  Right. Uh, so Mark, Mark talked about this defining and analysing the problem, just like you did in the first diamond of  or .  Okay. And then identifying users and stakeholders.  One of the key differences here is when you're dealing with a wicked problem, you have to put a bit more attention and weight on the stakeholders,  because they do have these, uh, in some cases, widely conflicting, uh, requirements.  Okay. So it's that, uh, similar process that we're going through when we, uh, give you these problems.  These wicked problems are the first of which you'll be getting on Friday.  Okay. So once you do that, you have to then, uh, kind of begin to, uh, I'll say, unpack this and to consider how you're going to,  uh, go about first understanding the problem and then thinking about, uh, solutions.  So this, first of all, root cause analysis. And again, this is something we introduced in  or .  What's called the five whys is really asking the question. We say five times okay.  Actually I should use this example. Sometimes it takes three, sometimes it takes seven.  But you want to keep peeling back to try to understand what's the root cause of what you're dealing with.  Also in terms of the systems thinking methodologies that we've been talking about pretty much for the whole semester.  And we talk about these things kind of in the abstract.  It's like, okay, there's this thing called systems thinking. One of the tools in systems thinking is causal loops.  Here's where you actually get a chance to use those. And remember that the systems thinking tools are not, um, are not, uh, algorithmic tools.  Okay. So the causal loops is a way of looking at the problem and kind of, um, uh,  visually identifying what are the relationships between various aspects of the problem.  And so that's what you want to do once you actually get the problem brief.  And again, your causal loops might look very different from another group because there's not a set approach to doing that.  They're just a way of of understanding the problem and to be able to communicate it amongst your team.  And uh, if you are working with external stakeholders, with them.  Okay. The other thing that we talked about in terms of the systems thinking tool are where might the intervention points be?  So as you work through this process,  one of the other things you might want to consider is where are the places where you actually might be able to make a change.  Those are what are called the intervention points. And if you look back to, uh, that material that I delivered a few weeks back, uh,  the intervention points have kind of a hierarchy to them in terms of where you can actually have the most impact.  So again, that's something that you'll want to understand or begin to understand about your problem.  Because when you look at solutions that might help you determine where and what you change in the system.  And the next bit is trend mapping. So you want to look at this system over time.  What's changed okay. If we think about the projects that are our students did last year around health care systems, some of those trends were around.  What were the wait lists over a long period of time over, let's say, a decade?  And how had those changed?  Uh, we might also look at, uh, what were some of the disparities related to, um, Maori, uh, people trying to access the health care system?  We might look at trends around, uh, the cost of certain things.  So you want to identify which are the trends that you want to actually look at over a period of time.  Okay. And then, uh, data to support insights into the problem.  What other information can you research or can you pull out of the material that we provide to you?  Because we give you heaps of references around the problem that we assign.  And so how do you dig down into that to find something meaningful?  And remember there are like ,  of you.  So a big part of the challenge is for the leadership of the group to think about,  how do we divide this up in a way that we can send people off to do their bit and then pull it back to be able to make sense of it?  And then, uh, finally, multiple problem statements at the systems level.  Okay. So when you think about in , uh, and you identified in that, uh, first diamond,  you came down to one specific problem statement, what we called the how might we statement.  Okay. And and then in this case, because this is a complex or, uh, wicked problem, you're going to have actually multiple problem statements.  So you have to work through each of those. Okay.  So it's just and you know, this picture just kind of captures what I just said.  Uh, but it is bringing together all of this stuff the, the, um, diversity and complexity of these, these problems, uh,  what you know and don't know about the situation and all the people who care and in,  in many cases have really, uh, competing objectives, competing, uh, perspectives on the problem.  So that's what you'll be doing in terms of tearing apart the situation that we give to you.  Okay. And then as I mentioned, we're going to have multiple problem statements.  And so in terms of decision making you have to actually consider how do each of those problem statements relate to the overall solution.  And your team is actually going to come up with these weightings.  And so so I just mentioned in the previous slide that some of these things have no algorithm to them okay.  And in fact this this has no fixed algorithm to it either.  But you're creating one. So you're trying to take something that is still inherently uncertain.  But you're going to consider, uh, how much might one aspect of that wickedness, that wicked, uh, system, uh, relate to these specific problems?  Because you're going to have to do that in order to apply, uh, the process to be able to.  Come up with solutions and to compare them to each other.  So you're going to actually come up with those weightings yourself.  And again, what you come up with, even if your problems are similar, might be different from another team.  Keep in mind also, you might come up with different problem statements than another team because you see the problem as being,  uh, most related to a specific thing. Another team might view that differently.  All good. Okay. There's no single right answer.  And we emphasise this throughout the course. But just to put this out there again, there is no single right answer to these, uh, systems cases.  In fact, we've seen wildly divergent approaches, uh, but still come up with with very good, uh, solutions.  Okay. Uh, okay. And again, just like in  or .  You want to look at this? Uh, DFB, we kind of shorten this to the DFB framework.  Okay. And I won't beat this too hard because you will.  Last year, if you had me in  or , you have heard me beat this hard.  Okay? But we won't do that this year because we know you. You are all over this.  And so when we think about desirability in the context of a complex systems problem,  what we're really looking at is desirability to a range of stakeholders.  And so we look at for instance, uh, for patients in terms of the health care system, we're also going to look at Treasury.  We're going to look at the cost of delivery nets. We're going to look at doctors and nurses and some of the stresses and impacts on them.  We're going to look at perspectives of their the unions that represent them in terms of how much they're paid.  So there's all these different people for whom we have to come up with a desirable solution,  and some are going to be weighted more heavily than others.  And and it's a, you know, it's a inexact and, um, iterative process to come up with that desirability.  Then the viability is can we actually execute the solution or improvement that we come up with?  And ultimately, can we pay for it? Okay.  And so one of the goals of that is to be able to screen the options that are likely not possible.  And so Marc mentioned this. First of all you have this brainstorm. And again this is like  or .  Once you've actually structured your problem you're going to actually brainstorm on all of the possibilities.  And remember we talk about this divergent thinking. So you're going to come up with things that are solutions that are um, sometimes slightly wacky.  Okay. Uh, I think in health care situation last year, uh, we did come up with some very feasible things where people have these,  like mobile units going out to provide health care.  Uh, but people were talking about, you know, like, um, pods being flown in and out, all kinds of stuff.  Uh, and you want to get those ideas out there.  So you're going to come up with this brainstorm. Or in some ways, you could think of this as the longer long list.  Okay. It's the whole set of possibilities that your team is considering as, as anything remotely, uh, um, able to approach the problem.  Okay. From that, you actually apply these filters to come down to what's actually worth considering further than what we call the long list.  And from the long list. Then you start to apply, uh, these various criteria to get it down to as much referring the short list,  the things that you actually want to flesh out and then, uh, be able to compare and cost against each other.  Okay. So stakeholders and this is something Amanda is sort of our, um, I'll say stakeholder nerd.  I don't know if this is recorded, so she'll hear me.  Uh, but Amanda is, um, very, very detailed and, um, uh, spends a lot of time, uh, talking about stakeholders.  And so when we talk about stakeholders, this just gives you a little bit of context and reminder about what we mean in terms of stakeholders.  And so in a complex problem, what we want to be able to do is to think about, uh, categorising those stakeholders and,  and their level of importance and the extent to which we want to manage them, uh, and need to be driven by them.  So you'll have to consider that as well. Okay.  So on the two projects or let's see, I guess just on the Golden Mile project that Mark just introduced,  we've actually divided the stakeholders between what we're actually here, calling partners, okay.  People who are actually part of the the project to be able to build this out,  to be able to, um, get, uh, approvals to go forward and then the other key stakeholders.  And so you're going to want to take a similar approach,  is to be able to figure out which of the stakeholders are most important and the others that you still need to respond to,  but are perhaps somewhat less important. Okay.  And then once you've identified that, that's where you want to think about these stakeholder engagement plans, about which stakeholders are important.  Best way to communicate with them. How informed or satisfied satisfied do they need to be.  And to be specific. Because by being specific, it's going to allow you to do this.  What we call is the iteration.  You try different solutions and you're what you're really trying to do is to find the best fit across this whole range of,  uh, situations that people would like to see. And ultimately, you're looking for that best fit.  Okay. So this again is one from last year.  And here is the power interest matrix. And we've actually placed or this this group did this is student work.  Uh this group actually placed these uh stakeholders are in, in the matrix,  which is something that we've, uh, gone over with you and given you some background on.  Uh, so they've actually laid out the stakeholders in a way that helps them to figure out who needs to be managed, how aggressively.  Okay. And so, uh, remember also when we look at stakeholders, we're looking at the needs they have,  the desires they have, the outcomes they want in terms of necessary.  Nice to have or aspirational. And again this is student work.  And and so they're actually identifying uh things that are necessary.  What's going to be absolutely essential uh from the perspective of those stakeholders.  And therefore something that the solution must provide.  In other words, this is what's desirable to that particular stakeholder.  So if we're looking at something that's necessary to a stakeholder that's going to be desirable.  Okay. And we also, uh, introduced, uh, this, uh, let's see, week and a half or so, what we call the key success factor.  So you're also here this referred to as critical success factors.  And that terminology is pretty much interchangeable. So key success factors are critical success factors.  And in the uh, exemplars, the examples from last year that will post uh, the most of the groups do use the term critical success factors.  Okay. So those are the  to  most important requirements that, uh, you have for the project overall.  Uh, and then uh, these should come from the necessary.  So on that prior thing, it's uh, what's going to be necessary to people you want to synthesise from that these  to  most important.  And then those are ultimately measured to KPIs. So what might the KPIs be?  And actually, uh, one of the students who's here today asked me the other day because we were presenting things and some had KPIs and they didn't.  And uh, this student asked, is that like, wow, is that required?  Well, look at it that, um, the having KPIs identified is best practice.  So that's what you're going to want to try to achieve is not only to think about what those might be,  but how you could actually measure them and what might some of the targets be.  And so you use all that ultimately to evaluate the options and narrow to a shortlist.  So they brainstorm all the stuff that your team came up with.  Long list the stuff that you, your team decided was worth investigating.  Okay, a long list, um,  to , ten to  to , something like that.  What do you reckon? Yeah, it's into ten. Yeah.  I think you'll have you'll have a much longer list from your initial brainstorms that you'll then kind of,  um, collect and screen to like an initial long list that would probably be somewhere from  to .  It's probably a good guidance. Yeah. Okay. So so then, uh, you have that and then you're narrowing to a short list.  Short list, um, five ish mark at least two, but can be up to four.  Um, really, if you're at the short list that you should not be able to differentiate which one is better purely for your requirements,  you should have how many and maybe two,  or maybe four of your best options that you can only differentiate between them by carrying out a full social cost benefit analysis.  Okay. And so then you get to the long list options.  And uh, this is an example for the City Rail link.  And uh, so at that point they actually looked at four different approaches.  And those are listed here. And ultimately the City Rail link was the one that was chosen.  So they would have had to go through this same process and ultimately narrow it down, uh, to choose to go forward with the City Rail link.  Uh. Let's see. Is this okay?  I'm still on this one. Yeah. Okay, so, uh, four of them, as I mentioned.  Uh, were these. And from that is what they narrowed down.  And so you have to actually establish your long list options to be able to use what  we call the key success factors to be able to align with the problem statements,  to narrow that down. Okay.  And here's an example. Again this is student work. Uh, by the way just a little bit of a plug for this.  So we actually when you submit the final document,  there's an opportunity for you to allow us to use your work in subsequent years as student examples.  Okay. And you can see right here the value of this.  Okay. Now by the way, if you choose not to do that we won't use it.  And it's all good. It's not going to affect your mark. Everything will be fine.  But uh, we have found most of the student groups in the last few years have allowed us to use this.  And then, uh, that gives you an opportunity to see the work they produced in us, to actually use it in something like this lecture.  So here's an example of that where this group actually looked at their, their long list.  Those are all the things that they looked at as possibilities.  And then they looked at those key or critical success factors and also the desirability feasibility, uh, viability.  And uh, from that, they were able to create this matrix to determine what to go forward with in terms of their short list.  Okay. I'll pass it back to Mark, who will go over this example.  Thanks, Peter. Um, yeah. Just wanted to compare kind of so you can see the differences between what we do in systems versus what we do in industry.  So if I go back here, this is an example of two years ago where they were focussed on climate change adaption or mitigation.  Um, so as you can see, all the kind of final options that they've rolled into their long list,  and also the fact that when they were rolling out these final options in their short list, they had to define what geographic locations it was.  These were made and all the sort of finer details that come as you go more granular, down and down, down the line.  Okay. So remember, you go from that kind of, um, indicative business case, high granularity of detail.  As you move towards the full implementation business case, you start to get more granular and granular, more detailed, more detailed.  So really understanding what level that your analysis has to be at at quite this high level is going to be important.  Yeah. I have a question. Once you have the whole place right.  It comes from the different part of the state. Um.  When you. What in the short list?  Kind of like. So be friends, if that makes sense.  Yeah. You can. Yeah. Someone different.  Yeah, yeah. Awesome question. Yep. So the question was basically around how do you compare different options when you've got  kind of different problem statements and you've got options that might only address,  say, one problem statement or one of the critical success factors.  And you'll find that as you come out and do these, um, do these analyses.  And what you will do is that your role and I don't know if we have an example here.  Uh, we might here here's a good example.  So you'll roll it into packages. So what's common in infrastructure projects especially with Auckland light rail I don't know if I have that,  but most infrastructure projects you'll roll it into a do nothing uh do minimum uh, do medium and then a do the most.  And that's how they'll roll that into there.  So you can think about rolling if you've got different key success factors in different problem statements.  Sure. Your long list options here might one of these options might not meet all of those critical success factors,  but you can think about rolling different options into a final package that meets those critical success factors or those problem statements,  uh, the most or at least the medium or, um,  if you don't have much money or there's not much funding in the space for this or the problem's not that impactful, maybe it's a do minimum option.  So I hope that answers the question there. Thinking about and it's a really good question,  thinking about rolling those options into a form of package that solves the most of those critical success factors.  Thanks. Thanks for that. Well good point. Cool.  So that's what, um, was done in systems then jumping forward for the Golden Mile.  So when I looked at the Golden Mile. Yeah, just like you can see there, they've got to do minimum and then a bunch of different options based on um,  various critical success factors, parts that make different problem statements, all that sort of stuff.  And then up to them to decide one, what's the framework for which they're going to carry out this multi-criteria analysis?  I think this one was a seven point, yes.  Seven point, um, analysis. Up to you.  You can use seven point. You can use, um, three point. So high, medium, low you could use weighted scoring  to .  Up to you. Again the point is to analyse and white the scoring against the different options to try  and figure out which option or combination of options will give you the greatest value.  So as you can see the quite what is done in systems.  What is done team project does actually follow what gets done in industry.  Cool. So, uh, once you get to your shortlist options, you'll have to do that economic analysis,  that social analysis to really determine what is the best way forward.  The minimum might be the best way forward. If the impact of spending that much money, um, isn't worth the benefits that it creates.  So in that case, you might need to do something more than that.  Do nothing. You might do the do minimum.  A lot of the times to do maximum is seldom done because it's substantially more in terms of costs for not much more marginal benefit.  So maybe instead of a BCR of benefit cost ratio of, you know, ., you get a benefit cost ratio of ..  Um, in that case that might not be worth, um, carrying out.  That option. So with a small number.  I've already talked about this a little bit. With a smaller number of options, you're able to carry out a more detailed analysis.  So you'll do a social cost benefit analysis using the kVA to monetise those biggest impacts,  using the cost benefit analysis framework to carry out that economic assessment,  compare those monetise impacts with the cost some revenues produced from the project,  as well as carrying out a multi-criteria analysis for the more uh, non monetised uh impacts.  Important important important. Always explain those assumptions.  Then you'll carry out that social impact qualitative analysis using that MCA.  Talking about the impacts, discussing the impacts, especially on those four capitals.  You'll also want to identify which domain of well-being your your solutions or your problems affect.  And then talk about that as well. We've already covered a little bit of that both last week in this lecture as well as the social CBA.  Then when carrying out these assessments, you'll summarise these in a nice easy to read table with the full analysis put into the appendix.  Just again, a comparison of the differences between systems in an industry Golden mile use benefit cost ratio.  Rates of return. Net benefits. Present. Net benefits.  Um, and similarly when we talk about over here benefits cost benefit ratio costs what are those monetary costs.  What are those monetary benefits. And what is any other qualitative or quantitative impacts that we should take into account?  Full analysis in the appendix. When you determine your preferred way forward, you use that social cost benefit analysis.  What creates the most value? You must logically explain the rationale for your decision.  Consider how this plan would fit into a wider program.  So when we think about governments, you have governmental plans, strategic plans.  Then you have programs that are created by vendors to meet those plans.  And then you have tenders for smaller projects within each of those programs.  You must decide and determine how well your solutions will fit in to those wider strategic plans.  Really important. It will always be done in the industry. Um.  Yeah. Consider how that fits into those long term strategies. And I've got an example coming up.  But for example Golden Mile. Well then let's get Lance and moving.  Project option three was endorsed by LG and Alguém and publicly announced as a preferred investment option for the Golden Mile project.  So I'll talk a little bit about where the Golden Mile project is now.  It's not really running anymore, unfortunately, but, um, we'll talk about that in a second.  There's no that.  The significant benefits are expected to be generated by the combined pedestrian travel time crash reduction and pedestrian realm benefit.  So those are those three key monetary impacts that they were able to monetise using the CBA spreadsheet.  So expectation in the same project is for you to analyse monetise at least one impact in the systems week.  You'll look at probably how many more, or what are the most primary or key impacts that you'll need to monetise.  So this is how, uh, Golden Mile, uh, justified their alignment to various strategic plans.  You've got governmental policy statements. You've got ten year plans from local council.  You got ten year plans from regional council, your NZ Transport plan.  So many, many, many plans, many strategies, many, um, many budgets that they need to be aligned with.  Otherwise they're not going to get the funding. So consider those plans.  Consider what plans within your wider projects and how your options will align with those plans.  Once you've done that, got your preferred way forward, you've explained your preferred way forward,  how much it's going to cost, what impacts, what benefits it's going to create. You can jump into project scoping, project management.  How is this rollout going to look.  Um, so this and for three don't look at specific Gantt chart or schedules because these are very high level projects.  That sort of level of detail won't come until far past the implementation case.  So just looking at both a high level timeline and a way of measuring those, um, how are you going to measure those successes?  So you'll have maybe you'll have some milestones, deliverables put onto that high level timeline,  but not looking at a full Gantt chart and schedule for this one.  Okay. How will the rollout work? Some projects might be short term and some.  Sorry. If you have your final projects or your final, um, plans packages, some of those options in that package are going to be more shorter term.  Some of those things in that package are going to be more longer term. Some are going to be somewhere in the middle.  So you really need to consider how are you going to roll out the different parts of your packages,  the different options and your packages in a way that makes sense?  Okay. So last thing to finish off today. Just going to touch a little bit on kind of project realities project cancellations.  Sometimes projects don't always go to completion.  We see this quite a lot. These projects are really expensive.  If there's Project Blow-outs that you know, at two, three, four x the original stated price,  then you might say, okay, maybe the decision makers don't want to burden the taxpayer with those extra costs.  So they might get cancelled.  Projects can be cancelled for a variety of reasons political decisions, but mainly project Blow-outs projects going over budget.  There are also times where the public perception very rarely, but sometimes public perception can play a big role in projects being carried forward.  And often when projects get cancelled, there is a little bit of backlash or a lot of backlash in some cases from the public on various things.  Um, the Cook Strait ferry replacement, for example, that was recently canned.  But the reason being the project has blown out a lot from  projected when the business case was submitted to the government in .  Now in , last year in , blowing out to . billion.  And then, as you would have heard, Nicola Willis cancelled that.  We're going to use that maybe for tax cuts or some other, um, political decisions up to them to make those decisions go to mile.  Uh, that's paused at the moment, but the Let's Get Wellington moving program has actually been dissolved recently since National came in.  Can that project. Um, again,  a little bit of blow out and project costs and there was some public perception  backlash as well against the original Let's get Wellington Moving program.  Auckland Light Rail discontinued again due to large cost blow-outs again.  So this does happen. And I think what's important to understand is that this is the reason that you do your sensitivity analysis,  the reason that you do your testing, you test against the worst and the best case scenarios, because assumptions don't always hold true.  There are many reasons that the project may go overbudget.  Underestimating the project scope or, uh, scope creep here changes to the designs that were different to what they originally proposed.  Unforeseen events. Gabriel. Covid. These all add to increasing costs.  Very, um, very relevant for the City Rail link, which is, um,  gone quite a bit over the budget since then, has had to ask the public for more money to fund this.  So  . billion.  that's increased to . billion.  They have to try and get that money from somewhere. They need to resubmit a business case to try and ask the government for more money.  Assumptions they don't always hold. Hence the reason for that sensitivity analysis for that testing.  Cost increases. So specifically for City Rail. Those cost increases because of Covid.  That meant that I had to ask for more money.  And scope creep as an example here, where instead of having the original carriages, they wanted bigger carriages.  Scope creep, the scope crept out, the cost increased for those bigger carriages and therefore they need to ask for more money.  So project Blow-outs do happen. Um, it's not up to us to decide whether the project continues forward.  That's up to the decision makers.  All we can do is provide the latest evidence with the latest tests, with the latest assumptions, and put that forward to the decision makers.  The take home message being business cases follow a system method, but they are risky.  And in reality you cannot always, um, plan for that uncertainty.  But you need to try your best. You need to run those sensitivity analysis.  You need to do those sensitivity tests to understand what's the worst case scenario and what's the best.  So I'll leave that to you. Thank you very much. I'll see you again.
