Hi. I'm Danielle. Uh, then I've been looking forward to meeting you all.So, uh, yeah, we're halfway through this course.Uh, advanced topics, uh, topics?Yeah. You know, whatever the course name is. Advanced topics in HCI.Um, so. Yeah. Welcome.Uh, I'm your course coordinator, and, uh, where I come from is Toronto, and I did,uh, HCI specialist there, and then a PhD in human factors engineering,which is something that we don't have too much of in New Zealand because it comes out of,uh, military science, of understanding soldiers in the field.And how do things like stress and vigilance and fatigue impact interaction and performance?So that was a sort of quantitative HCI background that I had for my advanced studies.And then I went, uh, south to California and did some research at Stanford and, uh, enjoyed the Bay area.Ran out of money. Got a job at Yahoo and, uh, enjoyed working for Tumblr, which was one of Yahoo's acquisitions.In fact, I even wore my Tumblr shirt today. I learned, yes, it was so cool working for them.I got to, uh, go to their headquarters in New York on a regular basis.And then for the last six years I've been at University of Auckland.And so, uh, I'm very pleased to be able to bring, uh, some breadth of experience.So if you're industry, you're interested in industry careers.I've worked for larger organisations like Yahoo, smaller organisations like Tumblr, uh, have some different, uh, experience in institutions.If you're interested in perhaps going on to do a master's or further research, uh,the kinds of colleagues that I had in the field were like research scientists as well as like UX prototype, UX engineer.And so there are some interesting kinds of careers that are coming about that really do understand the central importance of a good user experience.And so taking some of the technical skills that you will have,and then some of the other kinds of soft skills and design skills that, uh, you might bring to the table.So, uh, today we are focusing on HCI research approaches.But before we totally dive into that, I wanted to ask if there were any questions or about the course in general, anything coming up?Okay. I'll ask again at ten.Uh, so if you have more course related questions, something comes up, uh, over the course of this discussion and you want to talk about it at ten.We can do that.Uh, today we're having a one hour block of thinking about the the fundamentals of HCI research, which also relate to fundamentals of knowledge.So, so pretty pretty basic in fundamental.We're going all the way to the bottom. And then from  to , uh, we're going to be doing our pure presentation.So you've just submitted some slides and you've submitted some notes.You've been reading a couple of papers. And so this is, uh, where we're going to get into groups of three and everyone will take a turn presenting.And then I have these worksheets here for you to complete and then pass to me at the end,uh, at , uh, where you've taken some notes about your peers presentations.So sort of like group activity, uh,where the presenter will present and then the your audience of two peers have these questions that they have to ask.So then you just talk about it together, you know, what was the data used in the paper.What were the analyses done in the paper. And you kind of come together to sort of summarise some of these important components of your articles.And then the last hour standups are good.Yeah. Cool, cool. All right. So let's dive in.So today we are again going going to the basics.What is knowledge. What is epistemology. And how does this relate to HCI.And uh a more like historical perspective of HCI.So again some different words or objectives.At the end of this hour you're going to understand major theoretical approaches.Yes. You're going to understand the definition of the word epistemology.What this is really this is really good. This is really good.You need to this is this is like a, you know, touchstone for for getting through university.Uh, what's a, uh, academic knowledge claim?So what does it mean to say claim a fact? Kind of what what amount of evidence do you need to claim a fact?So, you know, there's some consensus there, uh,that we'll talk about and that you already have learned about in the quantitative parts of the course from Pi earlier on,we'll get a little sort of history lesson comes with an animated video.So don't worry, it's going to be fun.And, uh, and then at the end of this, uh, hopefully the goal is that you then now look back at your research articles and then you're like,oh, this is the, the body of evidence that they made to make their claims.So they have a fact or finding at the end. And this is how they came together to be like, yes, we can claim this fact.So let's start off with the fact that we are in HCI.And a central thing that we do is design and build systems.And so of course we can can think about all these other things. But let's, let's be sort of central where where we're who we are, where we're from.So we can look at this pretty thing, just have a moment, maybe even.Have a quality quality lighting here and enjoy it for a moment.Enjoy those colours, enjoy those animations and think there's so many design decisions in there.Uh, the time lapse, the reverb, the physics.So who's making all these decisions?Where do they come from? You know, do we need to talk about this as academics?And I'll now sort of give you a bit of history.So it used to be, uh,  years ago that we thought ideas came from the gods or whatever particular religious flavour.Perhaps one, perhaps many. Uh, and and it wasn't that humans had these amazing insights and ideas.It was really that we were conduits of a greater, greater beings.And so anything that was spectacular that came out of human creation was because it was really we were channelling the divine.And so, of course, we we no longer think that or most people don't.And we have some other ideas about like, you know, where do our ideas come from?And we don't all agree. And in fact, the big sort of, uh, institutions within the university.Faculty of science, faculty of engineering, faculty of Arts groups together, the main sort of thinking, the main beliefs around where ideas come from.And how do we talk about those ideas? So what you're seeing here.Sorry. My my my back up zoom recording just in case.Uh, this this this lecture and recording fails is hiding.Uh, but what you see, what is there is like science on the left, design in the centre and then humanities on the right.Why is it so hard? You move this down with this down.All right. So here we have science, design, humanities.Just giving you a moment to think about those three major parts of the university and of design thinking.And so design sort of comes into these different places.So and the three clusters or groupings of like ideas of where does design come from?Where do our ideas come from? Fall into these three labels conservative, pragmatic and romantic.So generally the conservative approach is associated to engineering.So now we're a sort of dual cohort classroom where there's folks from software engineering, folks from computer science.It and so we're coming from different places. Uh, so a conservative approach is engineering.And that means a little bit more rational. And so we'll get into that.And then at the other end of the spectrum, we have our romantic we have our, our sort of fine arts design.And they, they're, they conceive of design ideas, uh, in a very different way.Not in an engineering way, a more rational way, but like, oh, these are amazing, talented,brilliant ideas that I've just been come up with and pragmatic is in the middle bridge collage.It's a very it's a very like, kind of grounded perspective where it's like, uh, we just kind of throw it together.You know, there's these different pieces that we just kind of throw together, and then we have our design.So the conservative and rational engineering approach could be considered like a glass box where you see the process.There's no, you know, magic in there. It's like these were our engineering goals.And then we did this, and then we did that. And then we got to this. So very clear, rational, like this is how we arrive at our design.Whereas the romantic idea, the black box is like, oh, I had this amazing insight and here's this design.Uh, whereas the pragmatic, again, self-organising system kind of bringing, you know,we bring our pieces together and then we, you know, iterate on it to make it work.So getting a little bit clearer engineering result of a process art is you kind of get this functional art piece at the end.And then pragmatic is the outcome of an iterative dialogue.So here it's one of the main sort of drivers for the conservative approach would be methods,pragmatic would be experience, and then romantic would be the insight of creativity.And then the the sort of summarising word would be rational, uh, a kind of iterative, reflective process versus a sort of more mystical process.Any any questions about that? Cool.All right. So now you can see I've sort of painted this picture that there's some different groupsaround the university who are thinking and approaching design in different ways.And HCI. One of the things that I love about HCI is that there's multiple, multiple perspectives and multiple disciplines come together.And so, uh, whatever your interest, whatever your background, there's a corner of HCI who's doing there.Are folks doing work on that on that topic, which I think is really cool.Uh, so it doesn't, again, fit only in one category because it's sort of inclusive, bringing in everyone, bringing in a lot of different perspectives.So on the one hand, awesome. On the other hand, kind of confusing.And so as you're looking at articles, you might be seeing like these very different kinds of perspectives,different kind of methods, different kind of claims.And it's like, wow, there's just like kind of, you know, how do how do I make sense of all this variety?So that is a challenge that you've been handed.And so one leg diving to the bottom deep is uh, what do we consider knowledge.So epistemology, uh, the theory of knowledge, especially with regards to its methods,validity, scope, and the distinction between justified belief and opinion.All right. Where I'm hoping at, as I mentioned, for the learning outcomes that we come away with all of you being able to explain to a friend,hey, did you know the word epistemology? This is what it means.So that's, you know, thinking again was where I want you to end up today.So it it comes to it comes down to like, what do we know?What do we know to be true? And this sort of where you sort of put that boundary of like, yes, that's a fact.And so we could think of certain facts and then question are they really facts?So let's say there was a pink flower and I said, this flower is pink.Is it a fact? So I'm.I'm seeing some yeses. I feel like a lean. A lean towards the.Yes for the pink flower. Now we can just take a step back and say like, hey, we're.We're humans. And our eyes see a certain, like, light spectra.And if you were a bee with the way the bees see flowers, the flower would not be pink to you.In fact, the flower is some sort of red spectrum.I'm not. I'm not an expert on bees or flowers.Uh, but just to say that something that perhaps seems simple, like the colour of a flower is actually related to us as human beings.It's related to the way our eyes see, to the way that we conceive of metrics,to the way that we conceive of perhaps rare occurrences versus what's random and what's a pattern.I know, I know, it's a lot. It's a lot. So let's take another fact.The date of the French Revolution. I know none of us are kind of history here.So again, I think it's like  or .I'm sorry, I should have I should have checked that before coming anyway.Is that a fact? Let's say it's . That's the date of the French Revolution.You know, kind of sounds factual. Date, event.But again, you take a step back and you're like, hey, who's writing the history book?You know, what is it, the the guillotine moment or the storming the the castle moment?You know, what moment constitutes the revolution? It started.You know, these people were fighting on this year, and these people didn't hear about it till later.And so they were still fighting. And so again, you take a step back and you're like, hey, that fact is not to me,it seems like there's a lot of different perspectives and opinions and people could argue it.And hence we take that kind of framework and we can apply it to a lot of the quantitative facts that we have around us.I'm not saying that there are no facts and there's no truth. Um, but just to say that like, oh, you know, this is one metre high.Is that a fact? It's like, well, we use metres as metrics.And so it's a fact for humans who agree upon that metric.Uh. So in any case, the fact that the fact the, the, the humans that come together to have consensus around facts can influence,you know, whether how much people agree on a certain thing and like how much it relates to our humanness.And like if it were, you know, not this group of humans and another group of perhaps other beings, would that be a factor?Not. Okay, I know we're we're getting we're getting a little far from HCI.But there are certain methods that.Don't try to ask. Are you a human or are you a bee?They're just like, hey, we're going to. We're going to assume humans are here and we're going to establish some facts based on that.And so some group of people are like, hey, this is this is how we're going to do feasible work.And that's fine. You know, that's, that's good at other people might come to them and say like, hey, I'm challenging your fact.And all I have is an anecdote. The bee sees it a different way.And so you might have a ton of numbers. And other people just have like a story.And they're like, we're challenging your fact with a story. We're challenging your numbers with a story.And so then it gets a little confusing of like, what is more worthy of describing a fact?All these numbers or just this anecdote.And that's where people kind of get into more conflict around truth.Because the people who believe the numbers are like, hey, these are the numbers.You're one story is not statistically significant.And then the people who have the story are like, this undermines all of your data.And so that's fine. The reality is, the reason why we're learning about epistemology is that people do have these different frameworks of truth.And so we don't need to make a judgement call of, like, these people are all right, and these people are all wrong,but we're just going to take a step back and saying, hey, these people establish truth in this way.And these people establish truth in another way. So that is epistemology.And hopefully if you've taken a look at the reading, it relates to what you read.Okay, so this is from the reading we'll look at again with fresh eyes after learning about the meaning of epistemology.So on the left we have all our alternative knowledge claims.And maybe you weren't quite sure what that meant before, but now you have some idea.About that. I like claiming truth. Usually.Um, at the end of an article. And so at the end of a qualitative article interviewing people, they'll say, we came up with these seven themes.These are some seven topics that people talked about in our sample of .Small sample. Small amount of themes.They're not trying to claim that if they talk to a million people, these are going to be the seven topics.They're just saying we talked to . Here's what we found.This is our truth. These are the facts that we came up with.And then another group of people, they like surveys.They're like, oh, I've fielded  surveys.And I asked these questions. And, you know, here are the stats for how people responded to these survey questions.Here are our facts. And so they'll have a different set of ways of deciding that they have done rigorous work.So the qualitative people and we'll get to this later.They have this notion of saturation where they feel like they have saturated the topics.We've talked to these  people, and these are all these are pretty much the main topics that we're going to get to.Whereas the stats or the quantitative people will say, hey,we did a t test and we found that this group of people have more of this opinion than this group of people.These are statistically different based on our alpha value.And hence here's our fact.So basically, again, not saying one group's right, one group's wrong, but they they both have their ways of establishing rigour.And so alternative knowledge claims we have our qualitative knowledge claims generally and our quantitative knowledge claims.And then we have some mixed methods claims which are more pragmatic.Hey, we built this design. We wanted to see how it influenced some people.And here's what we found. So again, all these kind of different sort of facts that are being offered on the table,and they do relate to the methodologies that you are learning in this course and that you're seeing in the articles.So based on this discussion, the words that you see strategy of inquiry.So that's like how are we asking the questions. What are we measuring.Uh, all of these are conceptualised differently from these different researchers from these different fields.And then we get to, uh, a kind of summary of the research at the end, where it's like only certain questions can be answered in qualitative ways,and only other certain kinds of questions can be answered in quantitative ways.And so all of this comes together as a package of like, hey, I have these methods.These are the type of questions. These are the type of answers that I get, the type of analysis that I do, the type of claims that I make.Any any questions about this? Okay?Okay. All right. We'll move on. Move on. All right.Again, this is coming from the reading.It's our quadrants. And so I've been giving you some examples talking about different perspectives.And these get assigned to different labels.And so in our top left we have post positivist.And this is very common in HCI. It's very common in science where we have a hypothesis that we test.There's quantitative and statistical methods. Uh, so post positivist is our sort of way of determining rigour, determining facts, and, uh,some of the themes or some of the ways of doing that have to do with these, like major concepts that are in this table.And so, uh, I did chat with the course rep, and one of the things that the course rep asked me,or sort of related back feedback from the course was like, you know, Danielle, every week, you know, what the students really want.They want to know what concepts they should really know.And so hence my answer this table.So every word on this table and the reason why they're grouped,I would say that's like a biggie for this week that you want to know what all these words mean and how they relate to research approaches in HCI.So determinism is our first word.And what this basically means is causality independent variable A has a causal effect on dependent variable B.And so this is a huge sort of belief and value in the post positivism uh, stream,which is like we believe in causality and we want to show we want to show it.And so that's determination. And what you need to do to get there is reductionism.You need to operationalise. If I believe that, uh, smiling, doing or doing more smiling makes people have better well-being,then I need to reduce those major concepts in some way.So I might count the number of smiles. And then I might ask people a Likert scale question of like, how do you feel on a scale of  to ?And so the big concepts of smiling and well-being are reduced to these kind of measurable aspects,so that we can do our stats and we can, you know, do our determination of causal a causation of A over B.So yeah, empirical. Empirical just means like you gather data, you observe uh, and measurement and then you verify your theory.So I have the big theory. Smiles impact well-being.I've made my measurements, I do my stats and then I verify my theory post positivism.All right. So now we're moving on to constructivism.This is more of our qualitative approach.The people who are like, you know, these are the different kind of facts that I want to find,uh, that can only be determined through like deep understanding.And so it'll be like a different kind of question.So let's say we take our, our example here of smiles and well-being from a constructivist point of view.They're seeking understanding. They want multiple participant meanings.So what does smiling mean in Korea.How do people smile in Korea? That might be a little bit different than how people smile in New Zealand.And this is so important for how smiles affect, uh, well-being.You know, like you can't say a smile in every place, in every culture, in every historical period is the same.Of course it's going to be different. And so that's why our people in constructivism are just like, hey,we're not really into the research over there because we don't think your fact is totally solid.Like you just take advantage that it's this culture in this time, whereas we're like, oh, no, smiles are way more complicated.And so I'm not saying again, I'm I love.All of the variety in HCI. So I'm not saying one spots right or one spots wrong.I think they both have their places to play where it's like quantitative.Hey, we we show some major patterns of our time.And then the constructivists are like, hey, this is why it fits in our time.This is the the social and historical grounding.You know, this is what it really means. This is what it means for different people.And so, you know, these people, I think they both have really good perspectives to add to the table.And so they might generate theory, be like, hey, smiles mean this in this culture at this time.And this is how that relates to well-being, which, you know, means this in this time,you know, all of that, you know, getting getting really deep into what these things mean.So understanding. Yeah. Cool.So now we're going to go to advocacy participatory.So this belong is sort of within the university uh where people are not just interested in that scientific fact.They're like, hey, I'm here to make a difference.I don't want to just prove something. I want to I want to help some people or I want to, you know, have some sort of effect on the world.And so they have a kind of political mindset, a political orientation, and they're interested in empowerment.And so they in that group, they might choose, uh, a vulnerable population who perhaps, uh, needs better well-being.And they might say, like, you know what? What sort of system would help you?And then they would build that and with that group and try to help their well-being.And so it's again, it's it's sort of like they may use some mixed methods.Um, and the goal like they're doing some research, they're like, hey, we're going to build a thing.We want to see the effect. You know, we care about well-being and certain interventions, but they're more grounded in that particular political issue.And then pragmatism kind of similar in many ways that their change oriented,uh, problem centred, uh, but like, not quite so political in, in orientation.And so, you know, this is our this is our reading again, how the reading sort of categorises the literature.I think some people perhaps could categorise participatory and pragmatic together, but we're just separating them out in this paper.And so again, uh, all these sort of experts bring knowledge to the table with their own constraints and context.Anyway, pragmatism, uh, is like, oh, I want to build a system to help the well-being.I believe that smiles. You know, something that sort of elicits smiles or prompts.Smiles would help. And so they then again, like, try to actually build it, uh, try to think like, you know, how do we, how do we get this working?How do we design it? What stakeholders do we bring in?Uh, this is what the design looks like. This is how it works.And then this is the real world outcome. Questions.Cool. All right. And then here again is another table.And it's it it sort of brings people together or brings all of these concepts together in just like a slightly different way to show equivalence,uh, between certain, uh, methods and claims and, and gets like a little bit more specific around like, oh, actually,what are the different kind of methods associated with these different knowledge claim positions?So I think after the discussion that we've had for the last  minutes,all of these methods should be sort of obviously related to these different claims.Anything surprising on here that you want to ask a question about? Okay, so this topic has often been on the exam and the test.And so usually on the exam or test we will be asking a question to say, hey, what about what is the underlying perspective.What is the underlying claim. And so one example here would be right.One research question and method about video game play from each knowledge claim position.So you sort of heard me do that with the smiles and well-being example.And so the goal for you is that you would be able to take a theme like video game play and then say,how would we ask it from a post positive this position?How would I bring in causality video gameplay from a constructivist position?How would I what what would be the research question if I were seeking deep understanding of video gameplay?All right. How about for two minutes?You think about video game play from these different perspectives.Talk. You, uh, can talk to the person beside you.I'll make a little timer here. And you can just discuss what video game play might be from these different perspectives.All right. Two minutes. Please chat with your peers.Try to answer this question. It's.And then I was invited.I'm really worried about Paolo. Let's just look at this.The past few weeks I enjoyed. We're going.You're homeless, right? Yeah.Which is why this just not what I. Okay.Okay. So this. Anybody have an idea about, uh, what would be a research question from a post positivist position?What would be a research question on video game play? Can anyone can any one share an example?Yes. We've got something here. Um, one of the effects of video getting difficulty on that is stress levels.What is the effect of video game players or video games?Difficulty on player stress level. Beautiful.Yes. Beautiful. A+.Okay. Example of constructivism.Research question on video games from a constructivist position.Yes. How do different cultural groups interpret the meaning of success of a video game?Oh my goodness. Wow.Yeah. So constructivism is about is always about different cultures.So different cultures interpret. Uh, it's it's.Yes, but it's sort of what you mean by culture because culture is not necessarily along ethnic lines, but like cultures along history, you know.Uh, yeah. Like even like demographics. Yeah, sure.Yeah, yeah. Demographics in the sense of like.But but if you reduce a person to their age, then that's more of a positive of this point of view.If you say like  year olds in out or in New Zealand and like, oh, this is how they grew up and this is what they care about.And you know, this, that instead of saying, like,  year olds believe us.Yeah. So, so just for the recording, um, and that everybody hears it was like,what is the meaning of different video games from players of yeah, play there.If you can remind me what the last part of your question was, how how do you different cultural groups interpret the media?Okay. So how do different cultural groups. So that, uh, is a little tricky because I might need to reduce different cultural groups to say,oh, and this is a sort of, uh, an issue with my own example of like, Korea smiles in Korea.And so it's like, if I took this class and I was like, what cultural group do you belong to?And maybe had a census question of like, you know, how do they how do they say, like, you know, different nation states?And so we're reducing culture to a label, which is tricky.And so we more will have to just say in the context of, uh, Auckland, we interview  people.And how do you believe your identity relates to your understanding of this video game?And so you never reduce their identity and culture to a specific label.And you don't say so because because we could sort of ask a survey in that way of like  people.What's your cultural identity and like find some themes, but then then that becomes reductionist.And so we just have to not make it quantitative in any way and just say,like in this group of people, how does your aspects of your cultural identity impact this?So it's a slight variation. It's very similar. Do you see what I'm saying?Yes. Question is the difference between opposing positivism and constructivism.Maybe you try to find some objective truth as opposed to politics plus positivism, yes,but in constructivism it's more that you try to get a subjective understanding of different perspectives.Yes. Yeah. So so a wonderful summary objective, aiming for what appears to be objective through their sort of apparatus of knowledge,claims and post positivism, and then only looking for subjective understandings.So not trying to have any generalisable patterns, but just saying in this group, here's what we found.This was the understanding we achieved. So video games from advocacy.Participatory. Anybody get their hands on? How do they use video games to advocate for, uh.Uh, societal change from that?Yeah, yeah. So the question, the the proposed question, how do they use video games to advocate for societal change?So yeah, we can get I think we would probably want to take one like that is societal change is change oriented and political.I would say it's a little vague. You know, I think we could take one step further.Yes. How how we would be against the long term view of opportunities to, uh, to, uh, empower to this location.How do video games provide opportunities to empower disadvantaged people?Yeah, I think I think that would be great. Uh, again, it's a it's it's pretty open ended, but I could see like,you somehow choose a certain group of disadvantaged people, and then you say, have you played video games?What opportunities has it come to in your life? And then you have an answer, which is great.Just one more. One more example here, just to give you a few more to think about.Maybe there's a video game on, say, floods or climate change.How does playing this video game make the players reflect on any current news related to climate?Would be another example sort of change. Again, change oriented because maybe you have a goal.I want people to. I don't know.Protest or recycle more or advocate or something like that.And then pragmatism. Any anybody get their.Yes. Um, one of the quantitative benefits of the video game player.Mhm. Yeah.Yeah. So I think uh so what are the cognitive benefits of video game play in educational settings.And so I think especially uh, if you had a particular video game that you were working on and you were like in this video game,I want to tweak the difficulty to have some sort of cognitive demands that would help students.And so there's something just like a little bit more real that you're actually building a video game.So this would be like, you know, the you doing research in industry or you building a game for academics or training, training simulation perhaps.And and you're like, I want to know, you know, what designs lead to these different cognitive factors that then will make this game more effective.And so there's something very practical about the question and the outcome.All right, so we are, uh, getting now into our history.History time. Okay, so paradigms of human computer interaction.And this, uh, is looking at the epistemology of these, uh, different.Oh. What's this? Not sharing.Not hearing anything. Okay, good. All right.Where are we. Okay. So apologies here.So we are looking at paradigm one from the s to the s.This is very pragmatic in the sense that like people are building factories, people are designing machines.And and the questions are like, how can I get this to work?And so it's a very pragmatic perspective. They're not trying to do science at the same time.They're not trying to increase understanding.And so the the human computer interaction, like innovations and inventions from that period are things like the typewriter, the adding machine,um, manufacturing, you know, the flight or pile car cockpit, pilot cockpit where it's just like, how do we how do we get this to work?The second paradigm of human computer interaction moves on from a kind of like problem centred, like ergonomic point of view to something that, uh,sees humans as having a mind and a mental model and a mindset and, like, doing more than just getting the task done, but maybe having some fun.And so the, the major inventions from that period, which is like the cognitive revolution, is, uh,the mouse and the keyboard, the personal computer, the graphical user interface, uh, and games.And so basically, like these paradigms of human computer interaction are mirroring larger trends around academics in the last  years,where it used to be like observable behaviour.And then it went to understanding the human mind, and then it went to the third paradigm,which is understanding context of humans and the networks, uh, of factors that influence our minds.And so say power differentials. Uh, like how does technology, technology like empower some people and disempower others?So these are the kinds of questions that would come up.And phenomenology sort of is another synonym for subjective experience, which is part of, uh, the third paradigm.So Clippy and generally like I uh, interactive I assistants are part of the third paradigm, uh,human computer interaction that are understood in a little bit more colour and richness and context,as well as virtual reality and sort of the new creations of reality and understanding the subjective experiences of all those realities.So we are arguably, uh, entering a fourth paradigm of human computer interaction.And the fourth paradigm has to do more with taking even one more step back of like, you know, we are in a neoliberal capitalist environment.How does that mean, like research goes towards funding these kinds of interactions versus these kinds of interactions,like even, you know, the capitalism and AI?And where are labour forces living in the world? So these are, again, some of the examples of a fourth paradigm that's still emerging.This is a table from the reading.And so generally again one other thing that will be good for you to do now thatyou have a deep understanding of epistemology and can explain it to a friend,is to look at these paradigms and to map,how are the qualities of these paradigms related to these different epistemological or alternative knowledge claim positions?So again, um, these are summaries of what I explained during that animated view of history.So I'll leave that perhaps for you to take a look at later.Uh, and then, uh, this is a short oh, video.Yeah. You just get my. Example.Okay. Uh, right.We'll just take that out for a quick second.Okay, so I wanted to share a quick example of, uh, of, uh, air flight or cockpit, um, before we move into the.Pull up, pull up. I am known to air crew of the F-s.Bitchin Betty. Roll on, roll right. That's a time honoured tradition in the Air Force and Navy.She is the oral alert in the aircraft for when there's something that's really important,that a little light bulb is enough to get your attention every .Around the world. I hear voices there for the first s every time.Apparently, yes. Flight controls. Flight controls.Like controls, like controls. The odds of her having to come on in real life are actually really low.And that's a credit to the company, to Boeing and to the aircraft itself.We trust that she's telling us what we need to do and we do what she says.I got a phone call one day from a friend who wanted me to come over.She had an aircrew there, and he got the call to roll right.Roll right. Well, right. I mean, it's now. And he did.And he said if he hadn't well, right when it said he'd have gone into doing it at that.And now. That's pretty overwhelming to hear things like that.It's just a piece of me. I suspect I'll be in this aeroplane as long as this aeroplane is flying.That's a long time yet. Bingo. Bingo.It's really cool to see her in person. Behind the voice.But. Okay, so welcome to everybody who just came in.Uh, we're just finishing up that first hour, and I'm going to take this example of [INAUDIBLE] Betty, uh, to, to just,uh, relate it to the different HCI paradigms and epistemologies that we've been talking about in the last hour.And so the we're talking about the design of a fighter pilot cockpit warning.And so this is the voice role, right. All right.So there's an audio warning of an emergency.The goal is to get the pilot's attention that this is a really like an emergency situation.And you better follow this instruction right away. And so in the first paradigm of HCI, they just want this to work.This is the man-machine coupling. This is pragmatic. They're like we need not just the beeping.We need something that will make the human react instantaneously.And so they're like this is successful. This warning message gets the job done.It gets their attention. It gets them to do the thing.And so it's a very practical HCI question in the second, uh, wave of HCI, we might think about why is this, uh, why is this working or.Well, what's going on here? And so, yeah.What's going on here? Why is this working? Uh, or perhaps even a little bit more statistically, like, is it working?And so, from a positive point of view, causality.Does the warning message create the behaviour that we're looking at.And then we can, you know, observe it and measure it. You know this warning happens.The pilot does this. Another warning message happens.The pilot does this. And then we have these nice quantitative results related to the causality of the warning message and behaviour.Third paradigm. Constructivism.Qualitative. Why is this working?Is it because most fighter pilots are men?And when they hear the woman's voice, it is so rare that they're, like drawn to attention.And they're like, yes, I will just do I now I my attention is like peaked.You know, my cortisol is through the roof and I will just like follow this instruction.And so how is the social context of being a fighter pilot create the success of this warning message.And in , if there are more women fighter pilots and women's voices are around them all the time,does that make this warning message less effective?Because it's not so rare?And so again, that comes back to a little bit more of a post positive question, because it has a sort of pattern as an answer.But the question of like, what is the social context, you know, what year are we in?What would be effective in like the s versus effective in the s?These are more constructivist questions of understanding why is this working?Okay, so I'm glad, uh, folks who came in just now that you're here and that you got to, uh, hear this example.And it will set you up for looking at all of these beautiful tables later on when you're studying for the exam.And so here's another short answer question that would something that you should work together in groups,try to answer it together and then, uh, we can come back.There'll be some sort of study. Study, you know, uh, zoom where we can talk about it later.And so then here is a summary of what we went over today.And, uh, when you go ahead and read on this later, if there's anything that's not clear, that would be a pointer to ask me some questions.
