We got a lot to get through today. So we're going to be covering social cost benefit analysis.  So taking what we learned about cost benefit analysis what you learned with Risa about social considerations.  How do we tie those all together in the business case. Compare the non-monetary with the monetary and uh, report those to the decision makers.  So last week, traditional CBA societal considerations and GDP at the government level, at the national level,  need to be thinking about both where the money is coming from as well as the non-monetary impacts as well as the monetary impact.  So what got our social CBA lecture today? Tying everything together.  Then tomorrow we've got Dame Professor Juliet Girard,  the chief science adviser to the prime minister during Covid for Cardiac Island, uh, during the last government.  So come along to that. There is a participation mark associated with that that you'll only be able to get by coming to the lecture.  Um, yeah. Huge. Pretty huge guest lecturer, very, uh, esteemed speaker.  So please come along. You'll learn a lot.  Really see what this looks like at the highest possible level when you're giving advice like these business cases to the decision makers.  So come along. Definitely worth your time.  Uh, make the team so you'll meet your teams that you'll be carrying out your team project and your systems projects with.  Um, again, there is an assignment attached to that, the team canvas.  Uh, so come along, mate, at some time.  This lecture room is free during that time. So you can come, uh, here or if it's here or wherever it is, the lecture theatre is available.  Come meet the team. You can also do online.  Um, but just make sure that if you can't make it for any reason that you inform your team, let them know where you're at.  Touch base, make contact. Okay. Anything else?  Check out this week's announcement post on Fridays. Uh, it'll tell you everything you need to know.  So learning outcomes for today identify and differentiate between those economic and non-economic that monetary and non-monetary impacts.  Um for systems level project monetise quantify or qualify those impacts using the cost benefit analysis spreadsheet.  Uh the living standards framework as well. You've already looked at what that is.  So we'll be using a how to apply that today. Discuss how economic and non-economic impacts are used in decision making.  Really important there. How do you summarise these things that don't really seem comparable?  How do you summarise those? So the people who need to make those decisions and what's uh, agenda for today running through those impacts,  monetary versus non-monetary discussing what those are and then looking at um, again how those are reported.  How are those compared. We'll look at Auckland light rail, City Rail Link I know that they're both rail.  They're both transport cases. Transport cases are just they have the most out there.  They're the easiest to get your head around. So yes we're using transport projects.  But these can be applied to many different projects as well from software um through to mechanical design as well.  So we looked at the financial case last week.  We looked at the steps for the CBA to find the policy alternatives in the counterfactual, the counterfactual being either the do nothing.  So the thing that you're comparing it to or it can be another situation.  So maybe you're comparing option one to option two, or you're comparing your best option, the preferred way forward to do nothing.  It's just basically what are you testing against?  What are you testing against that counterfactual identify who benefits and who gains, uh, who loses done through stakeholder analysis.  You'll identify those based on your problem analysis as well.  Identify those costs and benefits and discount that allocate those the time periods value those benefits and discount those benefits and impacts.  We'll focus most of our day here identifying and trying to quantify, monetise or qualify what those impacts are also touched briefly on discounting.  And then we'll look at how those are presented.  So once have identified who benefits and who loses through your stakeholder analysis you need to identify, monetise,  quantify and or qualify what those impacts of your solutions are to those stakeholders, to the people who are impacted by those solutions.  And social impacts can be either monetary, measured in dollar terms, or non-monetary.  That can be quantified or qualified. And we'll look at that in a second.  So monetary impacts. So those benefits and costs are expressed some money terms of money dollar terms.  New Zealand dollars also known as economic impacts. So you'll see those two terms thrown around a bit in the business cases.  Economic monetary in terms of money. They're obviously quantitative because they're in terms of money.  They're in terms of numbers analysis mainly through the cost benefit analysis and what we call the cost benefit analysis spreadsheet,  which we'll have a look at today. The non-monetary non-monetary impacts.  So these are things that are not expressed in numbers but they can sorry not expressed in dollar terms but they can be expressed as numbers.  So they can be quantified. Or if you can't quantify them that qualified or more qualitative so expressed in words discussion.  Uh we'll look at the multi-criteria analysis which is a tool that kind of helps you to compare these non quantifiable and quality quantitative  um terms and mainly assess through statistical analysis for a quantitative assessment on those um numbers that are not money remember.  Or it can be a discussion a more qualitative analysis holistic view looking at those um expressions.  So we'll look at what a multi-criteria analysis is. And this analysis can take into account both quantitative as well as qualitative data.  You need to identify both of these impacts before trying to value them.  How do you identify them? Well, when you carry out your problem analysis, you will identify through that analysis.  The main areas of well-being that you'll most likely be impacting.  So if you've got a project in the health sector it's going to impact health.  If you're in transport, it's going to mainly impact transport impacts, but it also impacts other impacts that may not be as directly correlated.  You can consider those the more wider benefits. Um, but these are mainly the areas that you'll look at.  So if you're working in transport, transport, health, health, education clearly going to have impacts on education.  The monetary impacts can include any revenues produced from the solution.  So if you have for example we'll look at City Rail Link.  Obviously city rail link charge will charge or any rail link will charge money to use that service.  That will generate some revenues. Those revenues will be used to offset those operating costs.  So when um, you have your maintenance costs, your ongoing costs into the future, those will be obviously offset by any revenue that you can make.  You have your capital and ongoing costs.  When we talked about this last week in terms of dollar value, what's the capital needed to, um, bring a project about?  And what are those ongoing costs from production start all the way to end of life.  So think of a holistic life cycle analysis.  You may have covered lifecycle analysis before. That includes both the build out as well as the operation.  We remember we covered cost savings and just benefits. So this also is included here.  Any future cost savings by putting out your um innovation or your solution as well as,  um, any dust benefits or detrimental benefits that can come about as well.  So for example, we use the bridge example if you're building a new bridge.  Yes, you have a higher capital cost, but you're going to be having savings.  And the fact that you don't have as high maintenance costs for a newer bridge compared to an older bridge.  So, for example, uh, any impacts on wellbeing that can be monetised.  So those economic impacts and we'll look at how to monetise those impacts in a second.  And these are identified through the cost benefit analysis and the living standards framework that we covered last week.  So the Living Standards framework have your  domains of wellbeing.  What domains are you going to be impacting with your solutions.  And then what is your impact on the four capitals at the bottom of the Living Standards framework?  There is always an impact on those as well. Non-monetary impacts can include quantifiable but not monetizable um impacts.  So you may find that you can put numbers to it, but you might not necessarily be able to put a dollar value to it.  That's okay. You should still include that in your analysis. Bring that forward.  Non quantifiable impacts things like impacts on those domains of well-being that can't be monetised.  Discussion around the four capitals things like that.  That more of a qualitative nature. And they're identified through things.  Frameworks like the living standards framework.  Health New Zealand has another framework that they use where they identify five domains of wellbeing for health specifically.  There's another one here out of order. It's another framework used that you can use as well.  Measures impacts on more Maori to Maori domains.  Um, I just want to cover this idea of ordinal variables.  So when you rank or give a weighted score to something, maybe you highlight it low, medium, high, or you rank them from,  you know, if you have a number of options you like, option one does the best stick and does the best.  Maybe that fifth option does the third best. These are called ordinal variables that categories that are ordered.  They are kind of in the middle of quantitative and qualitative.  While they can have numbers to them, is unquantifiable sort of.  They're more qualitative because you can't really do much statistical analysis with discrete categorical variables.  Maybe you can find an mean or an average or a mode,  but less applicable than a full statistical analysis that you could carry out on quantifiable variables.  So just remember that ordinal variables, making categories and ranking things more qualitative and quantitative.  You can't do that statistical or um, formulaic analysis that you can do with a quantitative variable.  That's important when we get to multi-criteria analysis. So some examples of that can include things like the number of hospital beds.  But as you'll see in the cost benefit analysis spreadsheet that's put out by Treasury, they can actually put dollar dollar values to this.  So I've taken these things that same kind of qualitative.  And they've used um, data from across the world actually mainly from Australia, to quantify or monetise what those impacts actually are.  Things like hospital patient visits, um, visits to the emergency department, uh,  even things like the health impact of a person, a single person biking every day instead of using a car.  You've got emissions.  You've got all sorts of stuff that, uh, monetised from the Cvac spreadsheet, which we're going to look at in a second right after this.  And then you've got the non-monetary, quantifiable things like age, weight or height,  and then you've got qualitative things like colour, taste, smell, things that you're describing the quality of.  I'm sure you've seen these already, but just to reiterate recap as an example, height quantifiable height would be cm.  A qualitative analysis of height would be hey, oh my, you're the tallest, your second tallest, your third tallest.  So you're describing the quality of the information in terms of what?  So just important to cover that there. So when we I did.  So the first steps to to monetising impacts we want to identify those impacts first.  What are those impacts. What are the domains that those impacts are having an effect on.  We identify that counterfactual. Like I said before, they can be a broad range of impacts.  So here you really want to identify all of the little pieces that have an effect or are affected by your solution.  Some of those will be able to be quantified. Some of those will be able to be monetised.  Some of those won't be able to be monetised or quantified.  You just need to do some sort of discussion, some sort of qualitative analysis on those.  Once you've identified them, try to oh, sorry.  And those are identified through CBA and living standards frameworks, those domains that we've already looked at.  Once you've identified them, you can try to quantify them where possible, quantified but not monetised.  Have your assumptions list those assumptions. This important thing here evidence base all of these, um, impacts using the CBA spreadsheet.  They need to have evidence behind them, and you need to be able to describe that evidence.  How good is your evidence? Why have you made that assumption?  And how do you know that that assumption is the right assumption? How accurate are those assumptions?  Are you and, you know, are you in with the order and one order of magnitude, or is that sort of  or  orders of magnitude away?  Quantifying does take a lot of time. It can be difficult.  Hence the need for things like the CBA spreadsheet put out by Treasury to try and help to monetise some of these.  Then once you quantify if you can try to monetise them, that allows you to compare them in a cost benefit analysis,  you should be able to monetise in some way the primary impacts of your solution.  So for example, in the past we've done um, climate change.  So one of the biggest impacts was going to be preventing further damages or catastrophe in the future.  So how do you monetise that. We'll have a look at how they did that in the previous, uh, systems examples.  Then modelling discount. Make sure it's in present value dollar terms really important as well.  So Livingston is framework already covered, but the  domains of well-being, they're monetizable through the CBA.  Now I keep saying CBA and I haven't introduced it yet, but we're going to get there.  But just understand that the CBA spreadsheet is a way to try to monetise some of these domains.  That seemed very qualitative when you first look at them. So it's a way for decision makers, for people that give policy advice,  to not be comparing apples with dogs, trying to get apples to oranges, apples to apples if you can.  Before capitals. Largely, the effect on the four capitals will be more of a qualitative assessment.  If you can get numbers, you can do a quantitative assessment mainly assessed through multi-criteria analysis,  uh, which we're going to look at as well. Yes.  That's right. So. Actually we'll look at the impacts database.  Just a link there. If you want to have a look at the dashboard you can jump in and have a look at that.  Click on it shows you the indicators, shows you what the quantifiable indicators are.  All right. So KBA spreadsheet. This is a tool that was put out by Treasury I believe in .  There was an update in  which made it much, much more, um, comprehensive.  But basically it's a database of values for impacts to monetise.  Sorry to monetise the impacts on those  domains of wellbeing.  It allows for a consistent approach to cost benefit analysis through common values.  So if you've got a bunch of different, um,  joint ventures that are doing tenders that allows them to have similar or basically the same assumptions and values.  So when decision makers look at the different options, they know that they will use similar assumptions.  So they know that they're comparing apples to apples pretty much.  They don't need to worry about one of the one of the big assumptions that are underlying this cost benefit analysis.  It takes a long term and broad view of those societal impacts.  So it does cover those  domains. Monetise and discount those impacts where possible.  So it allows for that because it's in terms of money. And we know through the time value of money that we need to discount future benefits,  future impacts to the two today's values again gives that transparency.  The decision makers know what the assumptions are of the evidence and the evidence base that underlies it.  And then this reverse analysis. Now if your evidence base is not good enough, is pretty shaky at best,  maybe very common amongst very new technologies that are trying to be put forward in a proposal instead of doing the normal here's our benefits,  here's our costs. This one does the best.  Instead you say, okay, if these are our costs, how much benefits do we need to have a possible option or a good solution?  So you might say, okay, we need to make a thousand new doctors or we need  new beds in this hospital.  This. That's the amount of benefit that we need to justify that amount of spending.  If the budget is put forward, say, okay, here's $ million, you need to make $ million in benefits.  So you can do reverse analysis as well,  but only when usually it's only done when the evidence base for your assumptions and the cost benefit analysis are a little bit wild.  So for our cost of this much, how much benefits do we need to generate for the project to be worth it?  You need to spend this much to make a substantially greater benefit.  Cool. Okay. So we'll look at the impact database.  So this is a screenshot from the spreadsheet. And I'll jump into the spreadsheet in a second.  It's a very very large model.  Basically has all these tabs really for you in Systems Week.  Or we want you to look at is the impacts database.  This is where it gives you quantifiable or in this case monetizable.  They've monetised those impacts on those domains.  So you can see here if you think about health as the wellbeing domain, the cost to the health system from a fatal crash is $, per incident.  So that's a dollar value that they've given to.  If someone gets into a fatal crash, what does that financial burden on the government on the health care system?  It might seem a little bit callous, but it's important to be able to try and compare, like I say,  dollar to dollar values, and we'll talk about something in a second that'll kind of reiterate that point.  But I just want to jump in and see what else we can look at.  This works. It may or may not work.  You can't do it. It's not like that.  Oh, that's not cool. Okay, so this is a spreadsheet.  It's an Excel spreadsheet, right? Gives you a little introduction to everything here.  You can have a look at any of these, um, links if you like, just to give you a bit more kind of flushing it all out.  But if I jump into the impacts database here, this is really where you want to be looking.  So you can have a look at these wellbeing domains.  You've got filters here. So if I want to look at just health.  Have a look here. Okay. We've got all these different health impacts.  I think there's around  total monetised impacts on the spreadsheet.  So everything from an ambulance call out thousand dollars burden to the government per incident.  Um, things like the total costs of a health care for person with diabetes per year, around almost $,.  So what we need you to do is to take a look at these impacts,  depending on what the team project or what the systems brief is telling you about what impacts are relevant.  So we've got health. Let's look at site environment or and let's look at leisure and play.  And safety. So you can see things like that.  So you've got some stuff. Quite morbid stuff.  We're gonna talk a little bit about this, but this says that the social cost of a human life is almost $ million a burden.  Serious car crashes, all sorts of stuff.  Robbery. Almost , per incident.  Now, this is taking to account everything you're talking about.  The resources from the police, admin resources.  Um, any costs and associated costs with that are are included in this one number.  Okay. So what you want to do is you want to have a look what's relevant.  Check those impacts. And then in your analysis you want to be looking at how many people this unit here is important.  Is that how many people that you saved or how many people that you affect.  Maybe it's how many incidents you reduce. Maybe it's waiting times in the hospital ID or whatever you're looking at in your analysis.  You need to match those units and then try to come up with some numbers as to how much damages you're saving or how much benefits you're creating.  So really important there. And if you like, you can have a look at how to model it.  Basically what you do is you take these impacts here. You've got these numbers here.  You input those impacts into this model here.  So you've got your main impacts one two, three probably really only focusing on  or  at the most monetizable impacts.  Usually  or . Put those in with one thing.  Uh, how do I scroll across? Uh.  I don't know. Um, basically, you put them into here.  And you've got all of these, um, all of these informations you have to populate.  Success rate segment of the policy intervention cohort.  So that's how many actual people that you intend to affect year on year.  You don't have to go through the whole thing of doing that.  Just take the impacts from the impacts database and then use it in your analysis outside of the spreadsheet.  What this does give you is it will spit you out. Net present value, um, costs.  And it can even give you some graphs as well if I can find them.  So you can have a look at this. It'll help you to, um, see what you really need at an industry for something like this.  Not going to be going into that as much detail in your systems projects.  But if you want to have a have a look at that, feel free.  All right. Moving forward. Cool.  Yeah. So what you might do is you might say, you know, you take the if you're if your intervention,  if your solution was to prevent a certain amount or reduce the number of fatal car crashes,  then you might say that the benefit is the number of car crashes that you expect to save times by that burden on the government,  because that's the dollar value that they've said it costs the government a little bit callous to put numbers to things like this,  but it is important that the decision makers are able to compare things like safety to things like convenience.  And we'll have a look at an example next. So check the impacts database.  Are impacts relevant to you. Try to monetise them if you can.  If you can't monetise them try to quantify them. If you can't quantify them, settle with a qualitative discussion.  The CBI is your best bet. It is difficult to monetise these impacts.  Hence the reason that the CBI was born from Treasury because it's difficult to monetise its impact.  So really, your best bet is to look at the CBI first. If you can't, you can look at some other tools.  These are the things that are commonly used in transport.  It's quite hard to find these tolls and other industries outside of transport and infrastructure.  You can have a look, but best bet CBI that covers pretty much every industry that you could be thinking about.  Um, for your options. If you can't, you may need to default to a primary or secondary resource.  Um, so for two years ago in systems, they covered climate change.  And one of the main sources that they used at the time wasn't, um, the impacts database wasn't as comprehensive as it is now,  but what they used was the insurance payouts from, uh, the recent flooding events,  and they extrapolated that and put a dollar value to that based on the situation today.  So you can use things like insurance for damages.  There are other sources, primary and secondary, that you can use to try and infer a monetised impact.  Um, again what's important assumptions underlying analysis.  What's that evidence base. So full disclosure next, the slide that we're gonna talk about next does talk about death.  If you, um, aren't comfortable that maybe avert your eyes a little, but nothing there's nothing gory or anything.  Just talking about the real life impacts of what your solutions can have on people.  So the value of a human life. So basically this is Royal Oak Roundabout.  If you've ever driven in Royal Oak Roundabout that's rubbish.  It's you know you're always gonna you're if you're not having an accident, you're about to have an accident there.  And so basically in , there was a report to remove the car parks that lead up to the roundabout because  basically you're blind going into the roundabout because of those car parks.  Those car parks are taken. You can't really see what's going on to your to your right.  The report came out in  wasn't implemented.  That suggested removing of these car parks. .  Cyclist is coming along. Driver opens his door. Cyclists either swerves or hits the door and is thrown out.  And so the traffic line gets collected by truck. Unfortunately passes away.  Dies at the same. Now, I'm not saying it's not a whether they should have implemented it or shouldn't have implemented it,  but it's more about the fact that something that may seem trivial to you in what you're doing every day, something like a redesign of a roundabout.  You may not think that it could, you know, lead directly to a death, but it can.  These, um, upgrades have now been taken.  Obviously, after that happen, those upgrades were made.  But there is always the question of if those upgrades were made before, what would what would have happened?  There was potentially a chance to save a life, potentially a chance to save.  Uh, what the government values as a human life.  So really, when you're coming up with these projects, you need to weigh up safety against things like convenience, time saving.  Um, things like satisfaction. That may seem qualitative.  Congestion as a as a good example of that. So you've got time saved.  Travel time saved. Easily quantifiable, easily monetizable.  But then you've got congestion. How do you value people being pissed off in traffic because of congestion?  Difficult, right? But that's why we have a spreadsheet to try and monetise some of these values.  So then we might know that okay, the time saving by not changing the roundabout or changing the roundabout might  not weigh up against or might be worth more if you save that human life.  Right? So you need to weigh up these things that may not seem very monetizable.  So how do we value a human life in the TVA has this thing called the value of statistical human life.  They've got it in their cost estimations manual.  The link that I just had up before, but the value of the human life was valued at around $ million in , based on a  person survey.  So these are bought out by surveys that they do. Do you think they would do them more often.  But they're actually since  not a doubled to .  But from there up until  it stayed pretty much the same up while up until Covid.  Pretty much the same. So ,, in , . million just before Covid.  And it wasn't until  when the latest survey was carried out.  So, you know, almost, you know, more than two decades ago since the first one and that  person survey resulted  in into to putting up the value of the statistical life to . million.  So that's what the value of a statistical life is. If you're looking at transport projects.  Uh, and New Zealand. So with that they're able to so they do the same thing with things like saving transport time.  Like I said, congestion benefits, um, time saved, all that sort of stuff.  And they make adjustments there as well.  And from there they're able to compare, okay, how many hours saved, how much, how much satisfaction gained from less congestion.  And then they need to weigh that against the value of the human life.  Okay. So it can be a bit morbid but callous.  But that's what has to be done. If you want to be making informed decisions about these latest level of project.  Oh. Before. Yeah. So $..  Now up to . $ an hour to not be stuck in congestion.  Yo, um, ask people what they think.  Yeah. So they're formulated. That's, uh, survey.  So they've changed a lot. That  person survey.  Yeah. It was just like, how much do you value human life now?  Literally now it's more. That's too bad.  I don't have the survey in front of you, but they're more in direct questions.  So it's kind of like if you had this situation and you had this situation, which one would you value more?  So it's kind of more indirect behavioural questions around how to value that human life.  And then once I published that it's still up to the to they don't have to take that advice.  They consider that  million. If they wanted to, they could say to that  million,  million.  It's up to them to take the information. The decision makers take this information and then they use it to come up with their numbers.  There's obviously a trade off here. If you value the human life too highly, you're not going to pass any projects.  So it's a balance. They need to be able to balance that enough that it's fair that they know how they're saving enough lives,  but then they also need to weigh it against things like,  you know, they don't want everyone to just sit in traffic all day or, um, a good one is the, the, um, speed, the speed limits.  So there was another big, um, not a survey, but a business case done on reducing the speed limits.  So, you know, you're weighing up things like convenience to things like safety.  So you need a good basis to do that. All right.  Jumping into some revenues. Uh, not going to go into any depth here on how to model these.  I'm going to be honest. They get the big four to do it.  A lot of modelling is contracted out and they carry it out for your systems projects.  Probably mainly going to look at primary and secondary information, looking at similar, uh, similar solutions that have been carried out elsewhere.  Similar projects, similar scoped projects to try and get some of these revenues.  You could also look backwards and you could be like, okay, if we cost this much, what is a reasonable, say, ticket charge for this rail system?  So the revenue estimates. You can see here in millions of dollars.  Falkland light rail for City Rail Link. Revenue is expected to be ..  Meanwhile, costs are around  million.  So they have a shortfall of in the  millions that they need to cover through budgets, through local council, through NZ three.  So summary for in some way they need to try and find that money to cover them for that.  So yeah, basically primary and secondary sources are going to be the best way to find some of these revenues.  Or you can just do a bottom up calculation. You can say, okay, we have this many costs.  What's a reasonable number that we can expect people to pay for the service.  Uh, and then costs. We already covered these costs. So that P costs.  So. So out there % chance it won't meet that.  Discounted to today's money, obviously. But you'll compare those in your options assessment as well.  Those shortlisted options. What are those costs. And then for City Rail Link these are some of the costs as well.  So when I say you need to break it down you need to break it down into things like design professional services.  Um has a has some resources around design and professional fees that you can use.  Um, how much land do you need to purchase? How much is the building, the construction costs, all that sort of stuff.  As well as that, there are some stuff that in CTA has as well.  And then monetising these impacts.  So looking at benefits you've got in this business case for light rail, you've got the traditional transport benefits.  So those things like um time saved congestion.  And then you've also got wider economic benefits.  So you've got the idea that maybe um Auckland light rail once it's finished, if you have a station near a bunch of shops,  there'll be some influx to the shops potentially of societal or some economic benefit.  So that should be accounted for as well. So there's primary benefits all those.  So traditional transport benefits. Reducing crowding on existing services.  Just one say reducing crowding on other services. Because you transport you transfer people from some from another service to the service.  Service improved quality of the service.  So getting to the airport is now easier if the Auckland light rail got put in.  So that's worth something. That's a benefit as well. That reduction in travel times obviously uh reliability benefits.  So I don't know if you've ever caught a flight into international airport, but it's really difficult to try to get at Uber.   people jump off the plane and try getting to Uber, and it's surged  bucks to get to town.  That's not that reliable. Maybe the buses, buses, as we all know, coming to the coming to uni on buses, not very reliable.  So the train service has a reliability benefit on top of those other options and then safety through new technology emissions benefits,  stuff like that. Wider benefits.  So agglomeration benefits of things like because you've got a new mode of transport that makes the city more efficient,  there's going to be productivity benefits and to all the benefits and to all the businesses that are all along that line through more  efficient movement of those people up those employees improved labour supplies so people that might not have been able to work somewhere.  Now they can work somewhere because they've got a line to get to that work.  Improved transportation impact on cost margins from companies.  Again, similar thing more efficient transport, reducing congestion on the roads.  And one area means that the freight or those things that have transport is possible as part of those cost margins are now cheaper.  Okay. Just before I move on. Yeah. Ago you were talking about, uh, Tyson and uh uh uh uh, and he said, uh.  And what do you like? You shop for the company. You have nothing but good luck.  Wow. You were talking about the people coming into a place.  I wouldn't be an inmate, so I wouldn't be able. Going to fight.  Paying money somewhere else. Um, are you talking about, um, multiplier effect?  Maybe. That we don't. So you don't consider the multiplier effect.  So. So if you have risk.  So if you have um, people that are working somewhere and then they go work somewhere else.  It's not as though you're employing those new people, right. Like they're just moving the employment from one place to another.  Yeah. Not. Yeah. Yeah. But how is that different that someone is going to do this job?  Isn't that tough to find? Well because they're creating opportunities to buy that stuff.  That's the new it's a new opportunity, not a transfer. They're not transferring it.  So it's a transfer. So for the tax and this is high unemployment,  the people that are working are just coming from somewhere else to work where that's just that's just the tax the tax purpose of that.  Not for creating new opportunities for people to go out and spend money or be, say, um, more efficient in the way they get somewhere.  Yeah. Cool. Thank you. All right.  Getting through where I have time. So, uh, for city by length, these were the benefits that were monetised here.  Um, so things like total travel time savings often set in commonly used models, one hour sessions from the UK.  I think, uh, might be from the UK, I'm sure, but the software to model some of these benefits as well, especially in transport.  You may not find all of those benefits. Model label model label model label.  Um, if they're outside of transport, you might you might not.  Transport's just got a lot of, um, a lot of stuff behind it because that's a lot of, you know,  transport infrastructure is a lot of what we do as engineers in society, the really, really big projects.  Um, emissions, total emissions reductions as a benefit.  You can do that. Pete is one of those links that I had up before Project Emissions, something t uh, you can use those to model emissions as well.  Have a look at the slide length.  Um, but again, just trying to just trying to monetise some of these, um, benefits, total emissions reduction and then just,  uh summarisation you might want to use this as well as in your systems projects, summarising all of your benefits.  Nice easy to read. What are the benefits that we were able to monetise.  See here obviously they had  is a lot.  They spent millions of dollars doing this business case. I would expect you know if you get one good one that's great.  You know if you can get two and three, that's good, that's even better.  But you know, I'm very aware that you don't have millions of dollars to carry out this modelling.  So just do your best if you can find one good one that's good.  So for the climate change one and two years ago their main one was damages through catastrophic events.  So savings in those insurance um costs.  There are limitations to the spreadsheet. Not all impacts will be relevant.  Not all impacts are listed on the database. Just check the database, see what's there, see what you can use and then go from there.  If you can't move to other sources, primary and secondary. If you can find another modelling tool, use that.  Probably unlikely that you'll be able to find anything as comprehensive as CBA.  They need to quantify the impact based on the evidence. Sometimes evidence is not the best, especially when it's a new thing.  Datasets can be incomplete as well. It does give an exact dollar value, so just be careful when you report the findings at the end.  Remember that rounding error. Are you really modelling for the nearest dollar?  Probably not. So just think about. You know it probably works out.  If you're going to model it to , people, then it's probably going to round to the nearest ,.  But just be careful of reporting findings that are like we're going to make exactly, you know, this benefit.  All right. This brings us to, uh, multi-criteria analysis.  Things like scoring frameworks, um, things like partially mates.  Mate succeeds. You can rank options  to  exclusive.  So you know you're not going to rank two of them as two. Or you can have a way of scoring.  So you assign a one to a five to the various options.  Maybe you just do green, yellow, red up to you to determine what that scoring framework is.  Very common tool. Use it for the for capitals. This is a previous year's um example.  Compare those uh so comparing both the monetary here as well as the more qualitative here important what impacts of the most important.  There is always the impact on each capital. So make sure you include discussion around each capital for those qualitative impacts.  Another example of what they did.  Um, qualitative assessment of what's going to happen to those four capitals as a result of implementing your solution.  This is an options assessment that's also used in multi-criteria analysis.  Yes, it's very long. You may think about rolling some of these many options into packages.  That's what it ends up a lot of. This is not a short list.  This is a long list. So you don't have to report this at the end.  This is just part of the process. You got a long list. Short list. Do a full analysis on the shortlist I'm just put this up for example purposes.  Finally full capitals. Always an impact.  You must discuss an impact on all of them. If you do not, you will lose a lot of marks.  Just here. Last thing. Um, the impacts of both during the build out as well as during operation,  whole life cycle, not just not just the construction, not just the operation, but both.  So clearly with these big transport projects. There's a lot of disruption.  You.  I was at a food thing the other day, and now telling us at the restaurant about the impact Corrales had on their business, and it's very significant.  So really, really need to think about those impacts, not only in the not only when it's operating, but as you build as well.  And these are some of these. This is the Auckland light rail options showing I'm I'm sorry I know it's very  blurry but just showing some qualitative analysis on some of those impacts as well.  Cool. We use a discount rate of %.  Oh, there's still more to go. I think this is the last line. Um, yeah.  Just the summary tables again. Examples of how to report that information, how to report those monetise impacts IRA be aware of it.  It can be used. It's often not used in some of these cases.  Um can be difficult to use but just be aware of it how to use it.  It may or may not be in your systems projects. All right, just to wrap up.  Compare those monetary benefits using the CBI if possible.  If not, go to quantitative and qualitative analysis using multi-criteria.  Look at the monetary and then quantifiable and then the qualitative.  And just a final point too late into tomorrow's lecture.  Even if you have a great business model, it might not get approved or even after it's approved, it can get cancelled by those who make the decisions.  So just be aware of that. Professor Dame Professor Juliet Girard will talk more about this in her lecture tomorrow.  Please come along. It'll be great. Really, really useful as you go on to industry.  Thanks. Fo.
