It's tempting to see the valuation of the capitals as one of the goals of the Living Standards Framework, but it's actually not. It's not a goal in itself. We tend to look to use monetization and valuation as ways of understanding how the different capitals work and how important they are to each other. But in some cases, valuation is either not possible, monetization is either not possible, or it doesn't actually add very much to the analysis or help us with our decision-making.

So, the fundamental question for us in the development of the Living Standards Framework is: what is going to help us to make better decisions, and what is going to help ministers make better decisions? In some cases, monetization can help. There are now techniques where you can put values to things, which enables you to compare things—a common currency, which is useful. But in some areas, that's not possible, and it probably won't ever be possible. If we're talking about rights, or if we're talking about justice, or some of these more absolutes about life and what makes it worth living, those are things that we probably wouldn't—I would find it hard to see how we would ever be able to put a useful monetization framework around those things.

One of the great benefits of the dashboard presentation of the data we've collected is that it has made clear what the relationships are between many of these aspects of well-being that we often talk about casually, and that most of us probably have a suspicion go together. But it's really useful to be able to see the data on that, document that fact, and then from there to be able to understand why it's the case that these things go together. For example, how housing—you know, most people would understand intuitively that warm and dry houses would affect education outcomes, health outcomes, labor market outcomes, and so on—employment outcomes, etc.—that these things go together. But the value of the dashboard, in our view, is that by collecting together the most important and salient indicators and the data on those different dimensions in one place, it enables us as analysts to do the research work on why it is that these things go together.

Is it because we have high income, we're able to buy a warm and dry house? That would be a part of it. Or is it because having a warm and dry house gives people the security to be able to support stable employment? Now, the reality is probably that it's both. But it's really important for policy analysis to be able to tease out those different mechanisms and understand what it is about that connection between those two things in that example that is most important, and in turn gives you a clue as to what it is that government and others should do to maximize the benefits of warm and dry houses for employment and so on.

I'd have a look at the heat maps of the associations between the different dimensions of well-being, and also the presentation of the multi-dimensional aspects of well-being for particular groups. The dashboard enables you to do lots of different data visualizations and presents the data in a nice way so that you can see the different associations and think about them and what they mean, and ask the question, why is this association there? What might be causing it? What might we do to make use of that association when we are developing policy initiatives or other activities?
