I am extremely delighted, uh, to present today, to introduce today, uh, Professor Dame Juliet Gerard.  And, uh, Juliet's got a, uh, Wikipedia page, so it's, uh, you know,  you can read all about her interesting history, um, of of being a world class scientists,  educated in Oxford, um, having worked in University of Canterbury and University of Auckland, um, and then, um, starting our own company nanofibers.  Um, and then also, if that's not enough, also working as the New Zealand prime minister's chief scientific adviser,  uh, since  for the previous government.  And she's, uh, recently, uh, left that role and, uh, she's going to join us as, uh, a permanent member of, of this teaching team, um, next year.  So if you, if, if you, if you really want to, uh, uh, learn on, uh, Juliet, take this class again next year.  But, um, I, one of one of the reasons why, uh, we valued Juliet's experience is in her role as, uh, chief scientific adviser to the prime minister.  Uh, she has, uh, probably more than many of us, of all of us truly applied systems thinking to solving some big, complex problems.  And, um, your in your assignments and what you're learning this class.  Uh, I hope that by listening to Juliet, you can try to see where, um, where you're going with this course.  Okay, so without further ado, uh, let's big I give a big, warm welcome to Juliet.  Thanks. I spent in Kyoto. Koto, can you hear me? At the back? Somebody at the back waved to me.  Yes. Thank you. There's some seats at the front, and I think there's an overflow for the people at the back.  Um, I'm just back from my time as chief science advisor, and everybody said, don't do,  uh, undergraduate or postgrad teaching because no one turns up to lectures.  So this is a thing of joy. I'm glad you're all here. I know they made it compulsory, and you have to do something with that, but I'm taking it anyway.  So what? I thought I'd say, um, at Ashwin's suggestion, was just give you a taste of how science advice.  And I've used that word all the way through. It includes engineering.  I'm not trying to be exclusionary in any way. That's just the word that gets used in government in New Zealand.  Um, and how it fits into government decision making.  And as Ashwin said, uh, of all the places, government is perhaps the place you are going to find these big wicked systems,  problems that need solving and whatever you guys end up doing, you're going to hit the government at some point.  It might be local government, central government.  And they're not just interested in your projects, they're interested in how it fits into the whole system.  So this will be very skewed towards government, not business, but hopefully it provides some context.  But whichever direction you're going in your career, I also thought I'd talk about how that changes in a crisis.  So I'm going to go through, um, a topic, plastics, where it was a fairly standard wicked problem.  It was fairly clear the process we had to go through to make recommendations to government, um, and all the different players.  But then during the last six years, working for three prime ministers, there's been a fair few emergencies, um, more than I signed up for.  So I thought I'd just give you a snapshot of what happens in an emergency,  what changes how you have to to quickly frame your advice, and importantly, how to communicate that advice.  And given that lots of people in the modern world are falling down rabbit holes full of myths and disinformation,  I've just put some reflections in the end about how that impacted our advice during Covid,  and it will likely impact all of you if you're giving technical advice and your career in any context.  So this is the boring slide. When you sign up to be the Prime Minister's chief science advisor.  This is what it says on the tin. You provide advice to the Prime Minister of the day on science in its very broadest sense.  That includes all science. It also includes engineering.  If you were in the UK, you'd be the chief science and engineer advisor.  But we've just got science as a catchall. It includes math.  It includes any systematic set of data and evidence that you might be able to use to inform good policy and good decision making.  It is clearly a completely bonkers job description because nobody knows all that.  And so the big challenge is to work out how to get the experts, get the expertise, the data,  the right people around the table and communicate that information to the decision makers.  So there's some more detail there. It's not just the Prime minister.  It could also be other ministers and senior decision makers.  I have this gloriously rose tinted view of politicians, because only the ones that wanted some science and evidence ever called, the others didn't.  And so it's a very kind of selective process within the beehive.  Who's going to respond to this sort of information? There's some bits about promoting public understanding.  There's that third bullet point that when I took the role, I thought, what's the chance of that?  What sort of alert function could we have? Boy, was I wrong.  There was a lot of alerting today. And of course, not all the evidence you need is on show.  So international relationships are super important.  So this was the vision for the role.  Not to try and be some guru, but to create a trusted bridge between scientists and engineers, society and government.  Um, because there was so many possible questions, it was hard to come up with a framework for working.  So we went with these principles of rigour, inclusivity, transparency and accessibility.  If you put them in that order, you can remember them as writer. Um, I think that scientists are very good at being rigorous.  They are challenged on the other three, and we put in real focus on how to include more views,  how to be transparent in what we were doing and how to be accessible as people,  and also make the advice accessible in terms of how it was delivered and appropriately for the audience.  And the challenge always for science advice is time.  So scientists and engineers would like to have a really thorough think.  Do some experiments, get some data and give a definitive conclusion.  Perhaps in three years, perhaps with an invoice of $, with their work.  The minister or Prime Minister asking you a question probably wants to get vice by Thursday or maybe next year.  So those two timeframes don't marry and how you communicate what you do know.  Importantly, what you don't know, when you might know that and how you might know that.  Um, a really important. So keep saying we.  It was a small office that we ran. Um, some of you might recognise Emma Brown, who joined us from engineering.  The people that joined the team came from all backgrounds, political, different bits of science.  Some had a PhD, some didn't. The way we hired them was to give them a pressure test.  So to draft a briefing on a contentious topic over a weekend, um,  and we just anonymously looked at them and pulled out the best ones, and it didn't pull out any particular background.  It pulled out a type of person. And I'll also say we in the context of science advisors, there's the prime minister's chief science advisor,  but there's also a bunch of science officers around Wellington and different ministries in different agencies and different departments.  Um, and I've listed them here.  And one of the things I worked hard on was making those people a team and co-opting people who had skills that were missing around the table.  So that was the first plank in my bridge.  If you like to get out to the wider community of people who could solve any of the problems that we might hit.  So this is my kind of theory. Slide if you like.  Um, and it's worth just reflecting on it for a minute.  Because if you've had a technical training, you tend to come up with technical answers to the problem as you framed it.  And if you're working on a systems problem, a wicked problem, something that's not easily defined and can be looked at in different ways.  You have to remember that the science or the engineering is never the only advice.  I think Covid gave the world an unrealistic snapshot of science, of bias in high profile.  That was unique, and I'll talk about it shortly, and that we have an unknown disease and lots to discover.  And so the role of science was huge. Normally it's not huge at all.  Normally you're lucky if you can get at the table and put some data down.  So understanding when the advice is useful and when it's really not useful and you should just get out of the way,  is as important as doing the reports and the advising.  Also understanding what science and engineers is good at.  So you're good at defining the problem,  say with the technical training problem definition is something that comes  naturally to you in a way that it might not for people without the training.  So even if it's a problem that's outside, anything you've ever studied,  the way you've been trained to think during your degree will make a big difference.  Um, and round tables, senior leadership tables, people really like that perspective.  So the problem definition piece, scoping it out, not narrowing down your options too soon.  Those sort of things come with the territory of having, um, an engineering or science degree.  Very good at looking at different options and then really poor, as I mentioned at coming up with definitive, timely answers.  So understand that, know what you can add and what you can't add to a decision making table.  Then on the other side of the coin, you've got the politicians.  Um, they need to make decisions in a frighteningly defined time frame, especially in an emergency.  But anyway, the public's impatient. The media is impatient.  Um, cabinet meets every Monday. If the decisions being made on Monday, it's being made on Monday.  And if your report is two days late, sorry. No can do.  So this that tension between the two ways of thinking and straddling that tension of the plural policymakers in the middle.  So they're the people that are employed by Treasury or the different government departments.  They're not elected. They work for whoever's in power.  You will have heard on the radio this week that the PM is busy saying, we are going to redo maths.  Um, that means that people in the Ministry of Education will be there till midnight rewriting all the policies.  They need to do that at pace. Um, and so they will have evidence from experts.  They will have evidence from the ministers advisory panel.  They will have a minister cracking the whip, and they have to straddle the two.  So understanding the policy, the politics and the evidence is really important.  So you know who to talk to when, who needs the detail.  Who doesn't? And two last things on this one.  Presenting facts hardly ever changes anyone's mind.  You'll know this from when you read the press and you say, um, alcohol is bad for you and you get mad.  So I don't believe that study. Whereas if it says alcohol is good for you, you are predisposed.  Often I am to believe it, right? So, um, you have to really understand your own bias and other people's bias.  Um, and understand the frame and the way people are thinking as you're providing the technical advice.  And finally, people often talk about science as if it's of value.  So science debate is just that. It's science debate.  It might tell you how to save a rainforest. It wont tell you whether to save the rainforest.  It will tell you the consequences of not saving it. Um, but it can't help, um, things like, um, the value of Freddi Frog and a mine.  So other people will be making those decisions. Generally speaking, of course, as technical experts, you still have values.  But be really clear to disconnect your values from your technical expertise.  So the sorts of advice we got to give over six years.  Um, the top one was what I thought we did a lot of that's the proactive stuff with recommendations.  So engaging with experts, but also stakeholders, local government, central government officials, businesses, whoever you need for the topic.  And I'll give you a taste of plastics. The hardest one was probably commercial fishing.  It was a very commercially focussed project. Some people just hated the fact we were thinking about commercial fishing.  And so we got a lot of, um, hostility just from the terms of reference before we even started.  Um, but the plastics one was probably the most successful sell.  Talk about that one. There was also a bunch of, um, what Jacinda called public facing explainers.  So when she felt that people were starting to go down a rabbit hole first for G,  but also for fluoride in nitrates, and then the thorny issue of evidence and drugs.  So we did cannabis. She would call me and say, hey, do you think you just like, put up a website?  Just the facts, just on this contentious topic? Um, and I'd say, sure.  And then six months of my life would just disappear because those are the hardest things to write.  So if you have a look at our web page, the links there, you'll see it's really simple language.  It says, um, contentious and there's factual list we could get.  But you need  referees. Once you've heard them all, you need to go back to them  or  times.  For some, they argue about the order of the the clauses in the sentence.  It's like, how dare you put the comma there. The hate around those topics is so high.  So really focusing on that communication is important, and there'll be many things that you will hit in your career where you'll get that too.  You've made an assumption that you don't even realise you've made and, um,  getting people to check it from all sorts of different points of view so that you  haven't included triggering words and phrases and context makes a huge difference.  And then the last type of advice, what's reactive?  If something happened that we weren't expecting that does a few things.  One is it takes all the normal things that are happening in government away.  Um, if there's a state of emergency, you can do things fast.  It's a quite, um, satisfying time to be providing advice because you can advice something and it happens.  Also quite scary if it happens. Um, and all the normal roles and balances and checks are relaxed so you can get stuff done.  Um, so very different context to the kind of peer reviewed long reports that we did the rest of the time.  So I'll give you a quick taste of what we did on plastics.  Um, so this was a massive project that we did.  It turned into a big fat report. Um, so as long as the thesis, you can have a look at it on the web.  Um, we had an expert panel. It included the business voice, the local government voice, NGOs.  And the wonderful thing about this project was everyone agreed there was a problem, roughly what the problem was, and that we needed to solve it.  And this was the first project we did, and I learnt that different audiences needed different amounts of detail.  So this was the full report. Not many decision makers will read a full report.  I was blessed with a Prime Minister that loved reading and did read full reports.  Um, not not all Prime ministers are like that. Um, some like the short report and, um, some like the really short summary.  I'm not going to tell you which one was which, but I'm guessing you could guess.  But it's it's kind of soul destroying to do all that work and have someone say, can you just give us the bullet points?  So it's really important when you are presenting any technical report to any audience to understand the level of detail they want.  So these six things were our headlines, and as well as that kind of level of detail,  we also needed to brief all the officials that were going to implement and make it happen.  In fact, we worked with them as we went along so the detail isn't lost.  Um, and understanding the level of technical detail people want is important.  So those are the six high level themes under the mould as quite detailed recommendations.  The bottom one they're collecting data is probably the most important, also the least sexy.  So we put it last. It's in every report.  So whenever you're doing what everyone wants to focus the small budget on getting the thing done, not measuring it or monitoring it.  But if you want to get funding to solve long term problems out of government or anybody,  you need to be able to show that your solutions are working, your policy interventions and making a difference.  So you need to really embed that data.  Of course, you need to tackle health impacts, environmental impacts, and you need to grab all that best practice that's out there.  All those little, um,  Start-Up companies that are doing cool stuff and making it work and share it and scale it and amplify all the innovations that are around the country,  both in terms of at the tech, the science, the engineering, but also the business model innovation.  Um, and just ways people are doing things as a collection in the community.  And we also had a go at asking the government to lead the way by leading by example,  both in terms of showing moral leadership on an important environmental issue,  but also because as the government, there's huge procurement, um, advantage.  So they have massive budgets across all our public institutions and can really start to  create markets for some of the alternate products and to do all that in a coherent way.  You needed an action plan. So that was so great.  This was pre-COVID. We had a lovely launch down at Sustainable Coastlines.  Who are our poster boys for creating data from beach cleanups?  We had a prime minister. We had a minister because we'd work carefully with those policy people as well as the decision makers.  We had, um, things ready to announce and roll out.  People who have been elected to office love having things to announce.  So they announced lots of things on the day, and this is my best citation for my career.  Um, so I'm supposed to like that one that's got  sites in it in a peer reviewed journal, but actually, this is my proudest one.  Um, we got a shout out from the from the general in the  government that they were going to do everything in that report.  So that was pretty good. Um, I'm scouting that all the other reports did not land that successfully, so I've picked this one for a reason.  The one on gangs went away quietly. There was no mention in any Governor-General's speeches at that time.  So we've got the immediate announced rebels, and we've got lots of press, and everybody's very happy.  But to make things actually happen takes ages.  And this is where lots of technical input needs to go into the ministry.  In this case for the environment side, the officials, treasury, all those people can have a good look at the business plans,  all the different capitals that they might be measuring and the living standards framework,  all the advantages we might get from change, all the disadvantages and the unintended consequences.  We tried hard to loop those people in as we did our work, so they didn't have to repeat it, but it's.  Takes quite a long time and the recommendations are still rolling out.  So you have to think what's doable, what's scalable, what's implementable.  If we're switching to petty recycling for trace, which we are.  You need the plants. You need to understand where the pet is coming from.  You need to make sure that if major companies like Coca-Cola change to glass, you've still got supply for your party.  You basically need to make sure that when we get rid of that expanded polystyrene clamshell for your burger,  you're not replacing it with something might have couple that oozes tomato ketchup on your lap.  You're not poisoning anyone with PFAs. You've got a sustainable supply chain of alternate products.  It's long. It's dealt, it's technical, it's important, and it's still going.  So the great thing about the plastic report is it didn't get bent at the change of government so happily that in  that was another.  And that the trend of the recommendations being announced, that's the meat trace.  And the delay between  and  was getting the petty stuff all sorted and the small matter of a pandemic and .  So that's this year. New government.  They've gone ahead with nationally consistent recycling guidelines that helps get the market sorted for all the source materials,  and it means only one, two and five are being recycled onshore.  A big step forward. Um, previously it was confusing.  Different ones were collected in different local governments and people were  confused and there wasn't enough scale in any one of those local jurisdictions.  So that's how it's supposed to look for the second half of the lecture, I'm going to pivot and look at what happens in emergencies.  Just to give you a taste really, of how you think you're working on commercial fisheries.  And then something happens and you drop everything and then.  So in an emergency, these four parts of the job description became really important.  The independence of the role is important. So I did it as a secondment from Auckland University, which gave me some independence.  That sounds irrelevant, but let's suppose, hypothetically, the leader of a country told people to inject bleach to cure Covid.  It would fall to the science advisor if people started doing that to stand up and say out loud on TV, no, don't do that.  That's the dangerous thing to do. And if you did do that, you'd probably have to resign shortly afterwards.  And if you're on a secondment, then you can float back and still pay your mortgage.  And so those things are technical, but important.  Happily, I didn't have any prime ministers that told anyone to inject bleach, so the independence wasn't really needed.  But it is important. And if you're employed by the government directly, you're bound by the Public Service Code of conduct,  and that really limits what you can and can't say. Obviously, public understanding is important in a crisis, the science communication is critical.  That alert function is on steroids.  So my inbox would fill up, um, and overflowing with people offering to help, which was great, but also quite intense.  And those international relationships were critical.  So you really need that trusted, accessible bridge in place so that people feel comfortable approaching you with expertise.  And the time scale is just nuts. So there is no time often to go and do proper research.  You have to provide advice at pace.  You have to caveat it that it's at pace, and you have to make sure that people understand that what you said on Thursday might be wrong by Sunday.  Before you change your mind, if you want to keep your credibility.  So the three emergencies I'll touch on briefly were the tragic events in Christchurch at the mosque shooting.  More tragedy for Carrie White Island when it erupted.  And of course Covid, which you will all have had direct experience of.  So the mosque shooting was not something where I ever thought science advice would be needed.  But of course, science advice includes a lot of social science.  And while during the immediate aftermath, it was a time for healing.  And the PM was leading, um, the gun reform and talking about unity.  There were lots of social scientists in the background who were thinking, how do we recover from this?  So in the recovery stage, it's really helpful to have experts in clinical psychology and counselling, social sciences of all type trauma,  and people who have got the cultural context to try and help a community heal, who are not necessarily,  um, representative of those that the counselling community would see every day.  So I went back to my Chief Science Advisor forum, Stuart McNaughton and Ian Lambert, both at the University of Auckland.  They advise education and justice, and they both had really deep insights into what the scientific community could do to help.  And Tahu Cook from Waikato, one of our co-opted members,  also lent and to really help us understand in groups and outgroups and make sure that we weren't just looking through a Pacquiao lens,  but that didn't give us the right expertise. So I contacted Mark Wilson, who is an excellent psychology lecturer at the UW.  You may have seen him in the press. He does a lot of good explainers on issues of psychology, and he had, a few weeks after the event,  gathered all the experts he could find, both nationally and going offshore to bring in Muslim leaders and people who understood trauma.  And he was putting together an academic journal, which he called a rapid response issue,  to capture how academics were reflecting at that time on the events and bringing in counsellors to see what the future would hold,  how the research community could really get behind them to support recovery in Christchurch.  Turns out that Jacinda was really interested in that, and I called Mark and we together turned it into a briefing.  Um, and she read that on the plane when she went to Paris to meet Macron, to start the Christchurch Call, which you may have heard about.  So that was a piece of very academic work from the psychology community that  turned into a briefing in very quick time and actually informed the response.  Um, Mark just kindly dropped everything and did that.  And like me with the Governor-General speech, that it was one of the most satisfying things he done because,  um, he felt like he was making a difference, not just waiting for someone to pick a book off a shelf later.  If you're interested, you can read it. It's all linked story in the slides.  Then the next emergency was completely different, but also tragic.  Most of you will know that there was a volcanic eruption.  Um, deeply unfortunate timing.  And that some tourists were on the island when it erupted and guides and tourists lives were lost and there were some really deep injuries.  So this was a really good example of the values and the technical insight piece.  Everyone in this room will have a completely different value judgement on whether you should go and retrieve a body.  It will depend on your cultural context, whether you're religious, just how you feel about about, um, that sort of thing.  And that had nothing to do with the technical advice,  but was weighing deeply around the table for the decision makers who needed to decide what to do.  So again, back to my Science Advisor forum. Joe Jolley was one of the members.  She's a volcanologist,  and I think volcanologists have this weird way of communicating that other people don't because their careers are really quiet with sudden spikes.  So she was on a plane overnight to London, but I still heard from her first that there had been an eruption.  She wasn't there. And who to call? Um. Turned out she'd written a paper on for Katie.  And this is the actual copy of the tattered paper that I had with me in the beehive.  So I got called into the bunker, which is the emergency response unit on the basement of the bunker,  weirdly below this tsunami line, about which you may wonder.  Um, but that's where everybody goes. And this paper had been written to answer one question.  Was it safe for staff to go and do fieldwork on the island?  So there was a risk calculation methodology which had been applied to particularly Jane's staff to say, is it safe to go or not?  And we were stuck in the bunker, in the beehive in these decision making meetings.  And everyone had decided, yes. The value judgement was there was a priority to retrieve the bodies.  Yes. We would take a risk. They needed to understand how big the risk was and they would go when quote said it was safe, unquote.  And Jane's were never going to say it was safe because that's a valid judgement.  So what they would say is we would not send our staff for fieldwork.  And what was missing was the understanding of risk appetite.  So if you think about it, if they'd been, um, a busload of schoolkids alive on the island,  nobody would have stopped to think they would have charged them to get them.  Um, and if, um, there'd been nobody there or a suspicion that someone was said, that would have been different again.  And so we had to separate out the risk appetite from the probability that there would be an incident on the island.  So it turns out buried in this paper in figure seven, in a not very accessible way,  was this hourly risk of dying from an explosion at different distances from the crater?  And long story short, I, because I'm a biochemist, not a volcanologist, took one of the volcanologist, Graham Leonard, around.  I called it, putting him in my handbag and taking him with me.  Coming back to this piece about emergencies, you can't normally just take a random person into all these meetings,  but because it was an emergency, I said, he's good. Trust me. He knows the island.  He sat at the back, and this is just a page from my notebook that, um, I tore out.  So I was in the meeting, passing the note back. He was communicating with gas.  Um, and so when it came to be my turn to talk, I felt confident that what I was saying was correct.  We spent a long time, um, in a short window, making these maps so that we could communicate to decision makers and to the public that, um.  And the mountain was changing. There were times when it was safer.  You should never go when it was red. There were times when you might be able to go and take a small risk.  Um, in the end, the calculation was made that if we went in on that particular morning,  there was a % chance of a further eruption that would cause fatalities.  And the decision was made by the decision makers that that was an acceptable risk if special forces went in.  So that was a very long morning. Um, obviously we haven't made the decision, but we've helped inform it.  And Graham here was the guy that helped me in the meetings. Nico was the guy in the helicopter looking at the car while they were doing the retrieval,  and if he saw anything or got sent any data that caused him concern, he could pull everybody out.  And none of this would have been possible in terms of technical inputs without Sarah Stuart Black,  who was a civil defence controller, goes by the name of Norm.  He was listening to all the technical advice and weaving it in.  There was also lots of support from the Volcano Science Advisory Panel, including this guy Tom Wilson.  They made so much difference that, um, we ended up creating a position for Chief Science Advisor for emergencies.  And Tom got that job, so he stayed on role. That's great. And these maps really changed the messaging in the media.  So it went from, why aren't the government doing something? What's going on to it considered pieces about the best time to go in.  So finally, just in the last ten minutes, I will give you a taste of the pandemic.  This was a different crisis to the others in that it was a long, slow crisis.  And generally speaking, governments are pretty good at short, sharp crises, but,  um, less well set up for long, slow ones then there's quite a lot written on that.  So everybody knew there would be another pandemic, but somehow we were all still taken by surprise.  So in January , I got my first call from Patrick Vallance, which for anyone following the UK Covid inquiry, you will know that name.  And he was gathering together a few international chief science advisers to find out, um, what everyone was thinking,  what everyone was seeing and wondering whether this new outbreak in Wuhan was the big one.  There was parallel information coming from the World Health Organisation into our Ministry of Health.  And one thing that we all noticed in those first few weeks was that anyone who had a plan based on flu,  so Italy, the UK, America, they were all in trouble.  So anyone who thought this virus was a flu pandemic because they understood the flu,  and because they'd written a plan based on the flu, their health systems were breaking and then they were locking down.  Whereas some countries like Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan in particular were doing brilliantly.  And so we had this small window where we could work out what to advise so that we  minimise loss of life and didn't make the mistakes that those other countries had made.  And I say, wait, um, and town who was and is the chief science adviser for the Ministry of Health, he was advising Ashley Bloomfield.  I was advising descender and for a long time my phone defaulted to calling and and vice versa.  In fact, I had to look up his number the other day and and my phone and finally forgotten him, which was an achievement.  So this was what was going on, um, in the places that had planned for flu.  So when you get a pandemic, the problem isn't the number of people that are sick.  The problem is that they are all sick at the same time.  You get this curve number of new cases a day, and at some point you go over the health system capacity.  Now that's a big problem because it means if you have a stroke, there's no ambulance.  It means if you get yourself to the hospital, there's no bed.  And so the number of deaths from the pandemic goes up hugely, not because people are dying of the virus,  but because they're dying, because the hospitals are broken. So the plan was okay, take some basic public health measures.  Wash your hands. We should have said wear a mask, but we didn't know that. Then don't go to big parties.  Just tone it down a bit tame, and then not everyone will get sick at the same time.  We won't get the superspreading events and you kind of limbo under the health system capacity line.  The problem with us was when we looked at our health care system capacity in New Zealand,  and it wasn't just us, we went in good shape, but it was true all over the world.  There was no way we could cope. So that the exponential curve for Covid meant that by the time you understood, you needed to take measures,  it was too late and the healthcare systems were just breaking all over the world.  So we had to do something different. So what we did was pivot to the elimination strategy.  And when I say that, it sounds like Ashley Bloomfield stood up in a meeting and said, pivot to elimination.  That is not how it went. We didn't have that strategy. We had to make it up on the hoof.  And, um, back to this emergency context.  If you're in an emergency, all of a sudden everybody can brainstorm.  So we had politicians, ministers, policy advisers, political advisors, science advisers,  literally around the table and just send us boardroom with a couple of beers coming up with the elimination strategy.  And in a nutshell, we were inspired by the system they had in Singapore.  We had that on the table and we had to adapt it to the New Zealand context.  So we made the loose, probably correct assumption that Kiwis, uh, much less well behaved than people in Singapore and we split everything.  So the reason that our table was so, um,  different from elsewhere in the world is that we acted really fast and that allowed for a bit of behavioural slippage.  And it also meant that you didn't lose as many lives.  So it was a lot easier to eliminate the virus if you started early.  So all those decisions were made. Everything all the decisions were made in an astonishing hurry.  Um, so that we could act in that we window.  We had that little window of opportunity. So, to be clear, all the formal legislated advice came through Ashley Bloomfield and Caroline Mcelnay,  the chief science adviser at an independent advice stream.  And, um, a lot of people helped. So it was astonishing how much input we got in that little window.  Um, I can't wave reports at you because we didn't have time to write any,  but you can have a look at some doctors if you're interested in what happens in emergencies on the website.  And I thought I'd just show you a few of the charts that were influential in some of the cabinet meetings that made decisions.  So this is in that window where we're deciding what to do. I didn't write a briefing.  Um, I just put some graphs on the table.  So this is the total number of cases of Covid in a country since the first day was the first day a case was reported.  Dodgy metric, but the only one we had. And you can see this is New Zealand just crawling along the baseline.  This is the UK who were in trouble. Australia hadn't really committed either way, but this is what we were interested in.  These countries here who had had cases but were managing them.  So Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan. This analysis, the number of new cases each day, not total.  They all will be from here and again days since first case in the country.  And this graph made a big difference to decision makers. So this was Italy, Iran.  As soon as it arrived it took off.  And then these are the Asian countries that we were really studying to try and see what they were doing that the other countries went.  So happily we did it. You remember? Um, this is us on day  versus the UK.  So this was the nerve wracking first lockdown, and eventually we eliminated.  This is what happened to the UK at the same time. I gave up with a log scale.  I was somewhere near the ceiling in terms of the UK cases.  And of course they locked down to just after the health system broke.  And here we are against our benchmark country. So again that's New Zealand, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan.  Um we were in there with the pack so that was great.  Later on international comparisons were still important.  Um, this is us versus Victoria. So here this is when, um, people in Auckland in particular are beginning to get impatient.  And we're doing that Delta lockdown the black.  There is New Zealand's first wave that I just showed you weirdly overlays almost exactly with Victoria who had similar policies, similar population.  And this was Victoria not managing to control that Delta outbreak because they did too little too late.  So the virus was all ahead of their policy interventions, whereas we were very strict.  So from um, a policy perspective of suppressing Delta, we did well as shown here.  So this is New Zealand suppressing Delta compared to Victoria and New South Wales.  Um, but we were losing social license rapidly.  One of the reasons we were able to do that so well was because the genomics team at ESR managed to do a sequencing.  So people sequenced cases all over the world to find out what had happened.  But we were doing it to find out what was happening. So we knew that this person here, this wasn't a separate breach of my key.  This was someone that had been to a party here because we knew the sequence of everybody's Covid infections and we could connect them.  And that was used in real time. And the reason it was, was because Jacinda was super focussed on using it as a tool.  And every  briefing said, so what's the sequence?  So where did they catch it? And that really drove our response.  So now we're here. Thanks to vaccination, thanks to masks, our health system is straining,  but now we are flattening the curve, which is where we always wanted to get to.  So I mentioned communication at the beginning. This is a newspaper clip from the heyday.  It's at the, um, the part of  where we've eliminated where we're all at the rugby and the rest of the  world is all locked down and hoping that their relatives are not too sick from Covid.  Um, there was some early evidence that in New Zealand and Australia, trust in science went up.  So people like Stacey Wiles did some amazing work to explain to people what  their individual actions could make a massive difference to their community.  We had decision makers that defer to experts. Um, Jacinda was very focussed on communicating the science and making sure the messaging was lined up.  Um, this was a Facebook, uh, video that she got me to do with Michelle Dickinson,  which was fairly terrifying because there were a million views really early on.  She had a big science focus.  So New Zealand's early communication, especially science communication of Covid, was written up by lots of social science critics as being exemplary.  Everybody said, yep, that's how you do it. But as the crisis got longer, that early communication became less appropriate.  We got a fair bit of anti expert backlash. Uh, many of you will have heard Stacy talk about the personal abuse that she got.  So we had this kind of middle phase where the science communicators were being awarded and lauded,  but there was a groundswell of people who really didn't care about the science.  They thought their personal freedoms were more important. And that culminated in the protest.  And when you get to the point where you've got riot shields holding up a graph, is it really going to help?  So that's something to reflect on when you go in with your technical details for any problem.  Do people actually care about the technical details?  Um, and how could you frame that messaging so that it's less triggering to people who are anti-sex?  But. So this is my favourite graph.  So the policy objective was to reduce the number of excess deaths.  This is just a graph from a world in data.  And New Zealand is at the very bottom. In fact,  we lost fewer people during parts of Covid than we normally do because it was no one on the roads and we also shut down other infectious diseases.  We also, for the most part, had pretty short, sharp lockdowns.  But none of these people remember or accept that.  So again, thinking about alternate realities out there on the internet is something to keep in mind when you're offering any advice in any context.  So I'll leave it there this time for a few questions if anyone's got any.  And then I've also got a few reports that just cover some of the stuff I've talked about, if anyone wants to grab them.  Thank you. Thank you.  Thanks for the trip down memory lane. Um, questions for Juliet.  Uh, yes, in the front here. And then. Should I recycle my water bottle caps?  That's the question. No, not until one of you guys invents a way of not having them clog up the sorters.  Okay. Well, same with icecream tablets, weirdly. Yeah.  Next question over there. You are from New customers where you talked about the dog days.  How should. Uh, thank you John.  I feel like we're basically seeing not just science mistrust about science, and I'll.  That's about right, because obviously the bottom line is compromised and having a lot of us.  Yeah, it's a good question. So, um, I hinted at at the beginning.  I tended to work with ministers who had actively sought advice.  But for every report, we offer a briefing to all members of all parties.  Um, and there were a couple of times where I got lines like, thank you for this academic evidence, but we've already decided we don't need it.  Um, so that is a challenge.  The way I personally was funded was to try and open up a conversation about how to get data to see if the policy they were suggesting was successful.  So there's usually a way in, but it's it's far from trivial.  And if you've got a prime minister that doesn't want science advice, they won't have a science adviser say it.  Building good relationships and accepting that not everybody's going to want a report is an important part of the whole cake.
